This is Jockel Pondcast number 216 with echo Charles and me, a Jockel Willick. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
In attack, most daring, in defense, most cunning, in endurance, most steadfast. They performed
a few of arms which will be remembered and recounted as long as the virtues of courage and resolution
have the power to move the hearts of men. And that right there is Winston Churchill speaking
in honor of the British First Airborne Division at honor and him. He was actually making that
statement on September 22nd, 1944 in which the battle was not actually even over yet. And we did
cover that faithful battle on podcast 94 from the book called Medit R. N. by Jeffrey Powell
and it's just an incredible book and an account of the British Airborne Division in that battle
where they lost almost 75% of its strength. And from that point on was for all practical purposes
out of the war. So who were these men that made this stand? We saw one when we covered Jeffrey
Powell's book, but obviously there were thousands more each one of hero and also each one a
a human being. And I recently got a book in the mail that someone sent me. The book was written
by one such man, one such human being. The book is called The Memory In Durs and it was written by
a man named Reg Curtis. So let's go to this book and meet and learn and honor a hero of a human being.
Here we go. Chapter one's called Pray Loot to War as a youth I carried out milk. I carried
out a milk ground in the early morning and a newspaper around in the evening, earning four
shillings a week, which helped towards the cost of the special clothing I needed as a choir boy
at St Augustine's Church near Grove Park Railway Station. When I left school in 1934 at the age of
14, I got a job at Elliott Brothers and Electrical and Mechanical Engineers firm in Lusham.
I cycled five miles to and from work Monday to Saturday and learned quickly under the
washful eye of the charge hand learning how to operate a milling machine, center lathe, hydraulic
press and finally working as a captain, a center operator. I had to just read that part because
you know you always hear about the old man who had to go five miles to work in five mile home
uphill both ways. There you go. There you go. Redg Curtis was doing it. After three years I was
beginning to set and by the way he's like 14 years old at this time just a kind of FYI. So
after three years I was beginning to settle in for a long-term job when a series of small
strikes put the damper on my enthusiasm. The persistent industrial action prompted my decision
to join the army where such strikes were not tolerated. You kind of get the impression this is
odd guy, right? He's there having strikes whatever he says where where where can I go where that's
not going to happen. Oh I know the army. My father had been in the Royal Army Service Corps and my
grandfather was the chairman of the Royal British Legion so the army seemed natural enough in my
family. I was encouraged by my uncle Fred himself a regimental sergeant major. I chose the footguards
because after a short-term of service I would be acceptable to the city of London police. In those
days you had to be at least five and five feet ten and a half inches tall to be a policeman.
I was already six one and still growing. I presented myself to the guards recruiting office in London
and enlisted with the first or grenadier regiment of the footguards. And flowing forward a little bit
that there was one corporal Tucker. So now he's you know going through the boot camp scenario.
There was one corporal Tucker. My squad instructor who took great delight in marching us on
to the frozen parade ground with extra zest. Then put us on a charge if we slipped up.
So you not only received a sore rump but also got extra parade as punishment. Another approach
was to march us toward a large puddle and then give the order to mark time. Come on knees higher.
He would shout from a safe distance, scrutinizing each man and turn and looking for any signs of cracking.
We were just numbers at Caterham.
Though this day I say it did me no harm as it instilled a self-discipline that has served me well
through life. That's what you're going to get. And you know you and I were talking earlier about
basically normal face. Basically look I'm not going to show that this is not fun. I'm not going
to show. And you were saying that you learn if you say look no factor right? No factor. I got to do
this hard thing. No factor. Not hey I got to do this hard thing so I'm going to get mentally
all fired up. No no just no factor. And you learn over time that saying no factor keeping it in your
head actually you get better at it. And all of a sudden hard things you just go I'm just going to do it.
I'm just going to attack it. That's one of the things that this type of military training does.
And even he's saying look the stuff that this guy's going to go through is a thousand times harder
than doing mark time march on the parade ground for an hour. Thousands of times harder infinitely
harder. But there's a little less in that he learned. And plus he's British right? And the Brits
with the stiff upper lip that's that's like a whole culture at least it used to be because the
culture's changed a lot and Britain but this warrior culture of hey they're literally England
if you think about it the stiff upper lip which is hey we're just going to go do that's that's the
no factor culture of hey we got something to do cool we're going to go do it watch this with this is
England what do we got we got some hard for us cool no factor step up or let move forward.
Fast for in a little bit so he gets like one of his first jobs is is sort of
guarding the the royal family and so he does some of that and then moves on to kind of the regular
army going back to look soon enough I left the glamour of Windsor and the comfort of
Victoria Barracks behind it was sent to pair bright in Surrey where every guard's men goes
for field work craft and firing on the open range it was my duty to be able to handle and fire
a gun in preparation to protect King and Country in an emergency but trust my luck to a fallen
fall and fall of bad weather it was not really my cup of tea to prostrate myself on a wet
and windstrip flying right range with a sergeant breathing down my neck whispering words of encouragement
and added supply of rainwater running over me in torrents from his ground sheet cape
this is this is not the way you'd hear a US Marine described.
Being on the range in a rainy day you know that's such a British way of explaining this and then
he continues on it must have done some good as I made first class shot though for what purpose I was not yet
sure so guess what this is supposed to world war one I think I want to say this is 1939 when he
enlisted so there's maybe 30 maybe 38 actually I think it's 37 yeah 1937 he joined the army
so there's you know world war one was what 20 years in the past that was the war to end all wars
sure there's a guy in Germany that might begin a little up at he but he's saying hey look I
know I gotta learn how to use this gun but not really sure what I need to know how to do this for
continuing on fast-forward a little bit in early in 1939 I was transferred to the home of the
British Army at Aldershot in Hampshire I'll never forget the atmosphere of the night of the tattoo
which tattoo is like a word for a parade basically when our battalion marched on dressed in navy blue
trousers with red piping down the out seam outside out seam of each trouser leg long-sleeved
white wader type jackets with brass buttons and the guards peaked cap with red band around the crown
carried out without a word of command our drilled display lasted for 20 minutes the finale being
the only time a command was given the battalion will advance in review order by the entire by the
center quick march 450 men moved his one and the reason I had that once again when you just think
about human beings right psychologically in that moment look you're a cog in the wheel that's all you
are you're a pawn on the chessboard that's all you are but and he and he says it
like that feeling that you get of being a part of something that's literally bigger than you are
hey I'm just I'm just a guy out here in a uniform but there's 450 of us moving as one
and there's some part of human instinct that likes to be a part of that tribe
ummm continue on in August some mysterious goings on began unusual apparatus in the form of
digging equipment both powered and hand operated appeared along with wheel barrels and mountains of
little sacks which turned out to be sandbags lorries loaded this lorries loaded with sand
would dump their contents at various points and instead of the usual drill parades and kit inspections
we found ourselves filling these bags with sand and building barriers I thought it must be some
sort of giant exercise and had no idea that it was in preparation for real enemy
being confined to the barracks with its own shops and theater we didn't mix with the public
so new very little ball matters of national importance indeed in those days the serviceman was
not allowed to discuss politics and we would put on charge if caught attending a political meeting
so these guys are completely isolated and I'm thinking about even when I joined the navy and
we go on a ship we didn't know idea what's going on there's no internet yet and so we had no
idea what was going on in the outside world and even even living on base I mean you at least
when even when I joined you had key cable news right you knew that the CNN was on and you're watching
CNN and you're knowing what's going on in the world there's no CNN there's no TV there's nothing
so these guys are completely isolated they're living the all the stores are going to are on base
the theaters on base so there's living on base paying no mind to what's going on overseas
what does put on charge means getting trouble just in general yeah just in general like oh he
got in trouble yeah okay so it's not like a you know because it's varying levels of you
you're trying to any covers and he I'm glad you brought that up because it's he uses it throughout
kind of the book because there's you get you can get one on charge for all kinds of stuff yeah
and so it's just a general term that means being in trouble maybe written up maybe sent to the
brig for a little time whatever but you know you got put on charge yeah no court martial
nothing like this but could be you keep it up yeah if you well it could be too you like if you
did something really bad you just got okay you know he's gonna get put on charge okay yeah I got
you and yes is any level of trouble is what I perceive to this maybe a brick military
person will let us know if I'm wrong continue on on the third of September war was declared
with Germany and I realized what all the sandbagging was for within days my battalion was mobilized
reservists were called up and along with thousands of other troops two weeks later two weeks
later we were in France I think I was quite unperturbed at the possibility of getting killed after
all I was a soldier trained to kill so why should I have any qualms you know what's nuts about this
and I mean putting into perspective world war one which was now 20 years at hindsight was so
insanely savage and yet this guy still regges like yeah you know what cool I'm not worried about
getting killed I'm a soldier and you think about the casualties in World War one had to be
had you had to beat it shows you it shows you how quickly we can forget right what war is
because if you witnessed a day on the battlefield and World War one there's no way you'd want to do
any of that ever again but whatever your 20 years old you're crack shot with that rifle
time to go get some continue on in the forward positions we oh yeah and by the way now I'm just
jumping past hey they get there and by the way like I said they get to France two weeks later
this isn't like okay we're doing a prolonged preparation no we're declaring war on the third
and in September the third of September we're declaring war and then in September two weeks later
you're on the ground in France ready to get some in the forward positions so now they they start
moving forward from France in the forward positions we took over deserted village called
Tromborn about six miles from the German border as it was snowing our fighting patrol decided
to make use of sheets to create so they're in these areas that are pretty much abandoned
and so they're going into houses and finding stuff as it was snowing our fighting patrol decided
to make use of sheets to create sets of camouflage gear white suits gloves over boots hats and
coverings for rifles hunting around we've I found a sewing machine thinking that we might as well
do things the easy way as a fighting patrol we didn't fire a shot there's more matter of
listening and night reconnaissance in our white outfits carrying only rifles and are
limited other gear we traveled more comfortably than we had previously which I skipped over the
part where they're basically doing long long movements to get into positions on one night reconnaissance
we became over confident don't what that happened and one of our lads knocked up against the enemy
wire it was a still bright moonlit night we were in no man's land just 75 feet from the forward
German positions they're talking of stop to abruptly as luck would have it we were crawling so we
froze hugging the ground for an hour without moving on another occasion we were on our way back
to base when from and by the way on that one they they make it out on another occasion we were on
our way back to base when from the direction of a bend in the road 50 yards away we saw a group of
figures we were about two miles from our lines and knew that no other patrols were out so these
men must be the enemy our patrol leader gave the signal a lie still we were straddled each side of the
road in semi-open ground but fortunately the night was not too bright the group passed by
ten men in all spaced six to eight feet apart they were well-armed but war no white suits
keeping them in view and moving only our eyes we lay unnoticed if we had been spotted they would have
had the advantage because of their automatic weapons and also the fact that they as they passed
down our center we could not have fired on them for fear of hitting our own men never separate your
forces which is hard when you're walking down a road because when you're walking down a road you're
going to be in a what's called a staggered file which means you got guys on either side of the road
right which generally we're trying to stay off the roads anyways but sometimes that road is the
smartest place to move you're going to make a bunch of noise moving through the brush and you can
get on that road and move really quietly so it's something that can happen but then when they see
the enemy they all get off the road what's the quickest way to get off the road it's on the
room side that you're on and what does that mean you're on both sides of the road now in the
enemy walks in between you and you start shooting at the enemy you're actually shooting each other
so you have to be cognizant of that which these guys were continuing on when I came into contact
with two Germans and this is another thing about this book the first of all this book is not
very long but the other thing that's that's crazy and British and no factor and stuff up a lip
is he'll he'll describe the most insane things that were factually crazy as like in three sentences
of what and just really matter a fact you know so although there are times where he
definitely adds some color but that's the way he is just just kind of matter fact very British about
the whole thing when I came into contact with the two Germans for the first time myself I gave them
five rounds of rapid fire to range of 50 yards as they edge towards me under the cover of garden
walls and fencing they were my first shots in anger I didn't see the two Germans anymore so maybe
they were lucky shots guardsman baitman and Elm's doubled past and shattered for me to come
on and we continued into open country making our way over to a bridge and halting roughly after
roughly a thousand yards where we took up defensive positions air activity was increasingly
tremendous measurement one-on-ones were machine gunning at low level and had strafed our troops
coming over the bridge only a few minutes after I crossed there's these these talking about these
and I I don't know if I just never really thought about it this much detail but he talks about these
you know the enemy aircraft coming in at low level and strafing them all the time and if you
were seeing a measure Schmidt they're just really bad ass looking aircraft and a lot of the
German aircraft they just were I mean all the aircraft back then right I mean you got spit fires you
got corsairs you got mustang you got a p-38 line but you got awesome looking aircraft that and if you
can imagine this too at that time those were the most technologically advanced things right
so they didn't look they didn't look old right they looked like a x-wing fighter from star wars
right that's what you were seeing you were seeing this magical machine that was just
and now this thing is pointing at you at an altitude of like 300 or 400 feet and just dumping
machine gun rounds at you and can you imagine the noise that they make with those big giant engines I mean
yeah and so he talks about that a lot in these books and that's kind of the first encounter that
he brings it up the other thing that scares me about it is it's sort of random you know it's
almost like mortar fire because the aircraft's gonna come down if it's pointed two degrees in
that direction you're fine if it points two degrees in your direction your dead and the rounds are
hitting you know at a spacing of six feet or whatever when they get through ground so if you're
in between those two six feet you're totally fine or you get hitting the face or in the head
and you're dead so there's this element of chance going on as well which I never like
I never liked that element of chance continuing on leaving the area and traveling mainly on foot
encountering few enemy on the ground but experiencing continuous shelling and bombing from the air
we came to a stop by the river Asuka near the city of Tornai six miles from the French border
here we went into a counterattack during which a very well-liked platoon commander Lutenette the Duke
of Northumberland was killed Lance Corporal Harry Nichols and guardsmen Nash were ordered to
flush out some bothersome machine gun as 600 yards from our position that's British right you're
going to describe machine gun as as bothersome the section I was in gave covering fire
what what what what is that all about yeah that's called cover move fundamental to our left
they picked their way with caution Nichols and a light machine gun under each arm
Nichols with a light machine gun under each arm I didn't see them anymore but they must have
completed the mission because there were because the enemy fire ceased after a while Lance
Corporal Nichols was posted missing presumed killed but later reported as being alive in enemy hands
he was awarded the Victoria Cross for this action in the semi-built up area on the river the
Germans afforded very good target practice for me I found that I just could not miss but we were all
getting weary through lack of sleep and proper food no one can live off scraps or from scavenging
for long without feeling the worst for it and enemy numbers were increasing tenfold or so it seemed
continuing on we came to another stop this was the last time I took part in a coordinated attack
with the third battalion grendendier guards we went into a bayonet charge
I say again we went into a bayonet charge at court to cure
setting off I felt very scared and all sorts of things went through my mind like what the hell
am I doing here oh yes I joined the army to become a policeman want a laugh the muck was flying fast
bullets winding and splattering and I crouch lower to dodge them all I went with the rest my 16
inch and field bayonet blade fixed and protruding at the ready ready ready for what the only thing I
had ever stuck with a bayonet was a sack dummy then I saw them in the swirling smoke human beings
not sacks real Germans blimey I trouched on wrenching my ankle in a pot hole on and on until the
order rang out charge charge I began to double now with my bayonet thrust at full on guard
those figures growing bigger and bigger until they were just a few yards away among the din
and yells of pain there were dead bodies from both sides littering my approach I was a foot from
the two Germans went suddenly they both dropped their rifles and reached very high chattering
something about comrad I was so bloody amazed and relieved that I said come on then I'll take you
prisoner which is just that paragraph for me to think through because I'm thinking when I see
those Germans you know what I'm doing I'm shooting them right I'm not going to continue with the
bayonet charge right I'm not expecting to take these guys prisoner my battalion was now badly
cut up and he used the term cut up meaning shot up meaning wounded injured he used that throughout
the book with numbers well below effective fighting power and we were ordered to attach ourselves to
any unit and make our way to done Kirk though no reason was given and here I was stuck with two
German prisoners the journey was nerve-racking with hordes of refugees jamming the roads and making
military transport movement almost impossible lorries guns in French aged 39 hotchkes tanks were
off and seen abandoned inditches rendered imoval but clearly not by enemy action what was going on
were we throwing in the towel so he's seen all these abandoned vehicles and they're being destroyed
by friendly forces only because we don't want the enemy to get ahold of our tanks and he's
trying to figure out what's going on and obviously anyone that knows anything about history knows
that they're heading for done Kirk to leave the route was an absolute shambles with military
and civilian gear constantly getting estranged rumors were plentiful now such as the story
that leapled third of geard of Belgium and his army were capitulating towns all over France were falling
into enemy hands French general jiraud had been taken prisoner to pile on the agony the
Germans not lit up on their bombing or machine gunning one bit and their slaughter of refugees was
unnecessary and sickening to see we did what we could in the way of tending to civilian wounded
using their own clothing or bedding for bandages while their dead were either left covered
left or covered with something to hide their torn bodies and agonized faces even cattle grazing
in the fields had not escaped the bullets Craig and lay bloated through lack of milking or blown
apart by shell fire the carnage spread for a good two miles after seeing those poor
wretched civilian so caught up my occasional wounded soldier the occasional wounded soldier did
not seem quite so bad my two German prisoners appeared to be as disgusted by all of this as I was
and you're gonna see throughout this book the impression that he gets of the German as you
could see that there's definitely a wide range of Germans that they encounter obviously some
completely hostile but there's some that clearly are not are not totally engaged in the Nazi
attitude and there's plenty there's it's very interesting to hear as he interacts with people throughout it
continue on we reach the outskirts of Dunkirk to find a mass build up a French and British
soldiers with transport tanks and artillery pieces jamming the roads like a London rush hour
the next five days were a mixture of hell, hunger and fatigue and I think it was only thanks to
the fatigue that I overcame the hell and the hunger I know it was five days because I put a
nick in my rifle butt each morning when roused by this visiting stucco's and mishrschmits so they're
getting bombed and they're getting machine gunned every morning during daylight the appointed beach
master a British officer mustard officers and NCOs from all regiments and brief them to organize
parties of men to tend to wounded bury the dead and scavenge for ammunition and food I found it most
distasteful removing tins of bully beef and biscuit remains from corpses but at least I still had my life
the beach was littered with abandoned lorries and trucks as well as army staff cars with wheels
missing and doors hanging off as I wandered around going about my task among these mutilated
forms that were once carefree young men I remember thinking that I must be dreaming
I was brought back to reality sharply by the appearance of two enemy fighter plans which proceeded
to distribute even more death in panic I dived over a corpse and slithered down a sand dune
the staring eyes of the corpse saying to me get your head down and rs up after five days on the
beaches it was a relief to find that it was finally my turn to get into the snake like line
of troops ready for departure as I drew closer to the vast mass of a ship a mine sweeper
heaving in the mucky looking swell I could see it's multi-barrel attack gun porting skyward
in readiness for any stucophyters or attack or fighter attack the operator seeming oblivious to
our presence one was scanning the sky with his binoculars the water was by now was well and truly
up to my neck and I still had 50 feet to go I clung the rope with both hands and pushed on
the man behind gave me a shove the water kept lapping over my nose and into my eyes
gulping choking and spitting out the endless mouthfuls of oily, foul tasting salt water I was
now quite submerged with a last mighty effort I lunched in the direction of the boat still
grasping at that rope I could not have been it could not have been more than a minute that I was
underwater but it felt like a lifetime clinging on tight to the rope with my left hand with my
right I grew up through the rope mesh hanging down the side of the ship and with great exaltation
found and grabbed it I managed to pull myself up up up and up the ship rocking and heaving with
each vibration of the exploding bombs which were arriving much too close for my liking
so finally he's on board a ship and they're getting bombed and strafed flopping down
exhausted I was soon asleep though inevitably we had a visitor visit from a meshishment
and this woke me violently as its bullets danced along the ship's deck causing large pieces
of wood splinters to spew over everyone these administrators as much damage as the bullets to some
unfortunate recipients I dosed off again and slept like a log until we docked in England
so ended my participation with more than 300,000 others in operation dynamo better known as the
history better known history as the miracle of Dunkirk so that's the way you kick things off
with your with your war and I forget the time that passed and I know that the time that
seemed to pass was very quick the way I just read it skipping a bunch of stuff but it was like
200 days that he was on the ground this was no hey I was there for a week no they were there
moving forward fighting drawing back going on tack back and forth this whole time and you know that
could be you know just that experience right there could be a whole book and it yeah on into itself
right that's how that's how low key red skirt is is you know he was literally
extracted off of Dunkirk after this entire campaign falls apart and he covers it in 20 pages
not even 20 pages because he's getting warmed up so he gets home and he says they're followed
two weeks of leave that I enjoyed more than ever before the sheer ecstasy of white sheets and
pint after pint of beautiful beer and the days of roughing it in France seemed soon
seemed very long ago yeah can you gotta you gotta think how hard it's like when you're going
through basic seal training mm-hmm what they do is they I don't know how weak you've been awake
for like two or three days and then they go hey they come up with this big story and they tell you
that oh you're gonna we've we've kept you we were too hard on you guys we we have the the
commanding officer just told us we got to we got to put you guys to sleep for eight hours so go get
warm dry clothes on and we'll come back to you guys and we'll wake you up in eight hours and you're
of course you believe it I mean back in the day we believed because we didn't know any better no
one gave us any heads up there was no in for intel network providing information there wasn't
there wasn't like the movies about the stuff right so we just thought oh wow that seems
kind of crazy but okay and then you get all dressed nice warm clothes and you're all dry and you go
even go literally get in your bed and then as soon as you fall asleep like 20 minutes goes by
and they're in there with machine guns and bull horns and they're waking you up so when you think
about that's that's retiny right that's a tiny tiny little thing when you compare to what's going
on here this guy goes to France starving like wounded and dead everywhere fear gets back to England
goes on leave for two weeks white sheets you know beer it's all good and then you know what's
gonna happen you're gonna go back so when you when they did that to you uh in was that hell
week and they did okay so before there was before there was like a network right I say
that and you said you believed it like one they say oh we put you right was there a part of
you mine like or as far as part of the reason why you believed it it's because like they are pushing
you pretty hard at any point were you like hey they're pushing us too hard yeah actually I
thought what you're gonna say is was there part of my mom and this would have been I would
said yes was there part of my mind was like this is too good to be true this is nothing that's
you know that that I would say the bigger part of my mind was saying that but I kind of was like
oh I seems like a cool like they're they're telling us this right but no no before that though
like at any point where they like I know hell or were you or whoever being like I know how
weeks supposed to be hard but like this is kind of excessive like yeah I had no data on which to
judge it right you know it's gonna be hard you know soccer no guy that quit buds and I said you know
like why did you quit and he said because it sucked you know I said well didn't you know that
it was gonna suck when you went there I mean that's where you're going like we all know it sucks
go watch it a video you know and it's like it's gonna be it's gonna suck it's gonna be cold
it's gonna be wet it's gonna be miserable it just feels like that yeah it's gonna suck like that
part but then you know like it goes sometimes in your brain anyway it'll go beyond sucked into like
whether be dangerous I never felt like that no I was always like all this is this is just the
training right okay then yeah then that makes sense that you could go to when they say oh yeah
here's a eight hour sleeper whatever you could go to well this might be too good to be true yeah like
oh yeah so I'm saying what you're saying is you're sure that there's guys that were like yeah that's right
yeah man of course way too hard and then those are the guys that when they get when the trick
comes they get trapped brother devastated yeah devastated mentally devastated that's why it's one of the
best things well not a lot you know there's a lot of people that don't get out of that bed
right they don't get out of that bed because as soon as you get out you're going straight to the
surf zone and people don't like that man I mean you can hear seals talk about it guys can
get scarred from liking the ocean for years man for years they they don't want to go in the water
they don't want to do it because because they just they use it as an implementive torture
me I didn't care you know like I surfed and it was all good you know let's go get some sort of
how back to the book so he's home he's taking a little time off he goes back and starts doing
kind of local let's call it like local guard type activities and then we get this in August I
received a telegram telling me that my home in south London had been hit by a sea mine and I was
given compassionate leave to return what the hell was a sea mine doing inland it must be a mistake I
thought however apparently there was such a thing which came down attached to a parachute so that's what
the Nazis were doing and so he gets little leave to go and check things out and so he goes and here we
go this is him finding his home upon reaching Grove Park as I turned into fairfield road I immediately saw
that our house had received a direct hit there is now just a heap of debris where once it stood
half a dozen houses and dozens more were badly damaged the local ARP warden told me that not one
person had been killed because everyone had taken to their Anderson air raid shelters my parents were
both okay and staying with some friends of mile of the road it was a shock to see our home destroyed
but after all I had seen in France I think I must have become immune to any real emotions
and then this happens in October as a result of a directive sent out by our prime minister
Winston Churchill we received a letter which was read out to us by the regimental sergeant major
volunteers he shouted for a new type of fighting soldier are required he glanced over the top of the
paper BDI's registering some amusement soldiers he carried on to be trained as commandos and
parachutists now I know that you would not wish to desert the regiment but anyone wishing to volunteer
one-paced forward march glaring as he did so he took three stealthy steps towards us well
you all chicken then there was not a titer nor even a hesitant shuffle meaning everyone was just standing
fast I fought back to the days in France I thought of a carnage of the British prisoners of war
the warric regiment heard it into a field just outside Dunkirk and machine gun to death by the
waffen SS I thought of my home being blown to smithereens and how the Germans were blocking my
ambition to become a London policeman I took a pace forward before it was too late
and some time passes as they try and get everything organized and then it continues on I was to
join number two commando later renamed the 11th special air service battalion and still later
the first parachute battalion in Britain at that time there was little no knowledge of the techniques
of parachuting so everything had to be thought out very carefully there were no special types of
parachutes for jumping from aircraft and no suitable aircraft the whole lot had to be devised
developed and tested all too often with fatal casualties or severe injuries just learning how to
conduct parachute operations from scratch so they start their training and the training is
is really really hard as you can imagine here we go now we settled down to some real soldiering
and I actually begin to enjoy the tests thrust upon us I didn't realize it first that we were
being used as human guinea pigs trying out new methods of roughing it and of delivering a soldier
to the place of battle for everyone for everyone it was a taste test of strength involving
guts sheer cunning and a determination to win some conditions were abominable but my conscious told
me that this was a challenge I must rise to and again this is when you got someone that's learning
through repetition how to take pain and suffering and do it in a way that is no factor
jumping forward here through some training that they go through and all the training is just
it's a it's a guinea pigs right the training is just guinea pigs they're just doing crazy things
to these guys and then they do their first parachute jump get done with that within the next week
our seven jumps had been achieved and we could not wait to sew those blue wings on the right arm
of the battle's battle dressed blouse one laddy even brought his sewing kit along with him and sat
down to the corner of the hanger to get them on before anyone else it was odd to see a man walking
around in with and shot and manchester with their wings winged shoulders slightly forward of the
rest of their bodies civilians and other non parasolgers were asking who are these blocks with the wings
some sort of secret unit that's not a little bit of unit pride right this is why
dichotomy of leadership when life and Seth disobeyed big jocco in what started wearing patches
this is one of those things that you know I was thinking the back of my head like the if you're
gonna if that makes you hold your chest out a little bit higher and you get that unit pride
I'm gonna let it slide continuing on we were training both as parachutes and also for the
specialized work of the commando which meant that a lot of extra work had to be put into achieve the
very best end result above all above all it was emphasized it was emphatically stressed that we
should never accept defeat even when up against overwhelming odds and we were taught to persevere
to the end and to be able to endure great if not impossible fatigue sound familiar that's what we do
that's what we do in the military taught to persevere to the end and I guess that's so much of that is
so much of that is what the we know how you're taught to do that because you do it because when you go
to like sealtraining or whatever there's no class that says okay when you get tired think about this
no class that says that no class that says when you feel like you want to quit then you should think
about this or you should say this no if you're if that's where your head is at and you want to
quit there's no they don't teach you anything to stop it what what you learn the way you're taught
is by oh I'm gonna get through this that's what's gonna happen I'm gonna get through this
of course we have to learn a little bit about hand-to-hand combat we practice not only the use of
the knife but also how to best avoid one when used against us Chinese experts taught us judo
and unarmed combat with a rifle and fixed bayonet we would be flung at you or sorry a rifle with
fixed bayonet would be flung at you by the instructor who yell come on lunge it me I
lunged hesitantly for the first time come on long shanks lunge you won't get anywhere near me
right made I thought you asked for it and I took a really good lunge but this man was an old hand
like lightning he paired my blow and before I knew it I was flat on my back minus the rifle
it was the same with the fighting knife and quite a few of us nursed cuts at the end of a
day's training those knives were razor sharp just called real world in April of 1941 we were visited
by Winston Churchill accompanied by Sir Arthur Barrett and Major General Sir Hastings is May and he goes
he actually go I'm not going to tell the whole story but there's a one point where where reds has a
little very short conversation with Winston Churchill and basically he's he's redges the receiver
on a dison like a hand-to-hand combat display and he ends up getting from you know like a hip toss
I'm imagining and and when he's done and he's gonna get him up off the ground and in Winston Churchill
looks at him and says uh did you really try lad and and reds looks at him and says what do you
bloody think sir and then he said Winston Churchill purses lips gave a big grin and waddled off looking
delighted so that's pretty awesome interaction with Winston Churchill who by the way we haven't even
we haven't even started to get into the Winston Churchill scene here on the podcast but you know it's
covered you know it's covered and and that'll be I'm sure many podcasts and this is a little glimpse
into the future continuing on bypassing usual military procedure various on orthodox methods
and the use of small arms explosives were adopted and official eyes were shut so long as the end of
the jaw and result was achieved one such stunt was with draw the safety pin from a hand grenade
release the arm which we call the spoon release the arm which in turn would fire the four
second fuse in the prime grenade making it really live hold it for a second and then throw it
quickly the object being to make sure the enemy would have no time to throw it back and he won't
refusing this dangerous venture would be subject to a variety of flowery names luckily we had no
casualties to result and what makes that scariest so grenade as a four second fuse when you pull we
are holding something that what do they call the arm it actually fits into the web of your hand this
this this piece of like light aluminum and you when you put it in the web of your hand and then
you hold the grenade that thing is stuck in place now you then you next thing you do is you pull the pin
because when the pin's in there that arm doesn't go anywhere because it's spring loaded as soon as
you pull the pin that there's tension on the spring that's ready to make that spoon or arm fly off and
that's what arms it to blow up in four seconds the problem is is that the fuse is aren't perfect
so depending on the fuse that you get could be could be three seconds could be six seconds
could be four seconds like it's supposed to be is there a possibility it's two seconds yes there is
so when you cook we call it cooking it off so when you cook off that grenade there's a possibility
that it goes off but if you don't cook it off at all and you throw it
and you can throw it back you're especially if it's four seconds and one of their choices
they can either jump on it they can dive away or they can grab it throw it back if they think you
haven't cooked it back well best thing do is get it out of there remember T Fred Harvey the
he's getting grenade tossing fights with the Japanese so as this training is going on also
we have to remember there's the mental fortitude part there's the tactical training but we can't
ever forget just physically be in hard to keep on top form we had plenty of physical training cross
country runs compass marches and night exercises discipline was self-imposed and any need to impose
it by a superior was found upon yes that's what we want we don't want to we don't want to have to
impose discipline run about in leadership strategy tactics that's not the if you have to impose
discipline some strong then you're a strong your leadership is wrong because if you're leading correctly
the troops will put discipline on themselves they will they will acquire self-discipline because
they understand why it's important psychological and physical resistance were driven to the
utmost until men could take their limit and even more but it was never enough we were marched counter
marched and marched again in fair weather and in foul live ammunition fired at close range actually
helped I found myself so preoccupied with making sure I did not get hit but I became oblivious
to fatigue and plotted on at the end of the day's training I would stretch out on the hangar
for absolutely shagged on passing sergeant Sid Oxley might prod me and say something like
not bad lad not bad do better tomorrow eh get stuffed was the usual quiet reply as I slipped
a well earned cigarette between my lips and drew hard so there's a pretty good chunk of this
training in there and again all this training was they just created this they just created that
this was new where like we're making up and props one thing when I look at the course of my entire life
there's like a couple moments in time where things made an impression on me and one of the things
that made an impression on me as a little kid was I had these toy soldiers I had a lot of toy
soldiers but the British commandos from World War II they had little ladders they had little
grappling hooks they had boats and they had beanies right you know what I'm talking about I
when you're a little you don't know what a beanie is I know a beanie is yeah okay we you know when you see a stereotypical
like let's say a robber in a movie and they're sneaking around and they're wearing a black beanie
I think that all stems from the British commandos so for me when I saw like those little
care it was a little soldiers that I had with black beanies and rubber rafts that look like Zodiacs
they also had a little kayak for them too and I think all seeing those things I was always drawn
to the maritime component of special operations interesting hey I want to be the close what's the
close thing I can be to a British commando I see these guys with boats and and the weird thing is I mean
that's that's not what these guys were doing and in fact and I didn't say this red red
Curtis didn't know how to swim that's why he was so scared and he didn't he doesn't say it until
he later in the book that's why he was so scared at Dunkirk that's why he's talking about how he's
underwater there's nothing he can do about he's hanging around the rope because he does know how to swim
and he's weighted down oh yeah but yeah the the British commandos which I'm sure will broke off
from the parachute guys but that's kind of a major a major influence on a whatever six year old kid
yeah I don't remember any well then again I guess I wasn't into the toy soldiers element
yeah you were just getting like the regular big green toy soldiers from like the the grocery store
right yeah yeah army men for sure I had NGJL I graduated from
playing green army men two legit little soldiers that came from different units and I had all these
different units and I knew what kind of gear they had with them I had the Africa core right
the Nazi Africa core and again the ones that stand out were the ones that had like looked a little bit
different the Africa core guys were canned instead of green the British commandos were green
I had I had pair troopers they were these they were little army men just they were smaller than the
regular army men smaller yeah they were small they were I think I think there are no main
cladiers of one thirty second I think they were really small they were you know a half an inch tall
maybe and maybe a three quarters of an inch tall and they still had individual soldier that bottom
platform that little bottom platform huh and I would set up battle scenes you know out in the yard
and play by play the way things were unfolding yeah you probably went deep though I'm like you know
on the regular army men set man set the guy who's crawling in the little crawl guy yeah yeah
like he would be flying sometimes in my own scenario yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
he could be in that flying position well I had that I had the model planes who I also had a
teacher named Mr. McGurk in high school and he had a little army he had little planes all throughout
his room the classroom hanging you know model little model planes model planes I had model planes too
because it was all trying to make un-make this battle scenario and the weird thing is
the weird thing is about this stuff is like okay if my son let's face it if my son has army
soldiers we kind of expect that just to be normal right like hey of course I mean by the time
that kid was born he had more soldiers than you know I'd do with yeah but there's some instinctual
thing even you you are like back in Kauai right there's no I mean your mom wasn't
saying hey I really want you to be interested in military stuff right and yet you had green
army soldiers yes and even though some of them could fly which was a little bit unrealistic
some of them were still low crawling right some of them were engaging in battle against other
soldiers well yeah so you have an instinct for war yes and I think most just like I talked earlier
about the instinct for like hey I'm part of something bigger than me which is a beautiful thing
if you think about it right that's a beautiful thing like I am part of this group that I'm
I'm subordinate to this group as a powerful thing and it has to be countered correctly because
you don't want to be someone that gets brainwashed and joins a cult right the the Bhagwan Shri Raj
Nish cult sir right you don't want to be that person no no yeah that is weird now that you mentioned
that like yet it would call it an instinct for a instinct for war like I think because it's it's
so common like consider like G. I just okay I'll say this scenario so we we had a we're my dad
built their house and he well he was one of the people who built our house so when we're digging the
cesspool it's like me skeptical septic tank septic tank I guess it's like a huge hole
okay super deep anyway they put the cap on it okay um this big concrete cap on it okay and then they
fill it in and then but as it remains is still a big hole like the size of a jacuzzi okay about
that size but it's just a dirt hole okay it's weird it's like a it literally like a dug in jacuzzi
in dirt so I'm not sure what this is but going yeah that's just the way it it's sorted itself out okay
um so it sounds like a foxhole yeah you don't recall it that yeah but um for and then it
it rained I'm quite rains pretty much every day yeah yeah no no no so it's storming but
enough to put a cool little shallow puddle in the bottom of that and mud so we're in a muddy terrain
scenario G. I. Joe yeah why is so we got hills we got the top of the hill we got the valleys
the you know the water scenario at the bottom and oh yeah it was like battles going on the whole
time we'd like stuff on fire and your dad was no military experience your mom was no military
experience your neighbors my grandfather was at a D day but I did know that yeah yeah yeah yeah
that's right salute but I had no idea at this point obviously but but unless we're still doing it
G. I. Joe's good guys versus bad guys killing like you know you could take up on the part of the
G. I. Joe's like you could blow them all with fire crackers and then bury them and like do all
this stuff you should have a very serious stuff oh yeah you were going deep yeah big time
catching the whole dramatic and it's not like someone like told me to tell that and how much
how much did you see how many warm movies had you seen on TV even remember I don't remember but
you know you could I mean this is what like 80s we'll say like 90s maybe there's some 18 going on
18 and watch it not like religious anything so it's just we're talking to instinct that's the
bottom yeah I did I mean mash was on I don't think I'd ever watch mash that's more than comedy though
that's not like a but yeah it's kind of a comedy if you if you watch that show it's actually
in many ways there's some pretty heavy episodes of mash for oh actually because I remember watching
it when I was a kid and there's definitely I remember watching that movie going oh watching that show
sometimes and you ever in suspecting the laugh but then sometimes it would be super heavy because
they would occasionally inject war yeah yeah right and yeah so yeah so I think there's just an
instinct that people can have at some level and I think obviously just like instinct of
being something bigger than yourself that's an instinct that people can have at different levels right
not everyone's a 10 in hey I want to be part of a group that's bigger than me not everyone not everyone is
in fact I I would say maybe you don't even want to be a 10 because then you're just looking for a
cult of joint right next thing you know you're buying a guy rolls Royces which is what you got to watch
out for right so we're not looking to do that same thing with the war like instinct right there's
some people that are pretty high up on that I believe I was pretty pretty high up on that because
I don't remember wanting to do other things right so like when I thought about my future as a child
the thought was be a soldier like that's what I remember be a commando that's what I remember
so it's you know it's something that and I'm sure there's a bunch of other you know like a
a fatherly instinct right or a motherly instinct or uh here's another interesting one
some people like to travel right so people want to move around a lot some people want to stay home
there's like different levels of instincts that people have some people want to settle down and hold
what you got some people don't want to do that at all so people have various instincts so
I would say that what they did in this training is hone the instincts that people did have
and get rid of people that didn't have enough of the instinct for war and you know once again
talking about seal training they're not really teaching you anything they're just getting rid of
people that don't have the right instinct yeah that's what they're really doing they're not teaching
anything you learn only because you learn from your experience but it's not an active teaching
protocol yeah that's it so do you what do you think do you think that that's like
good like is that and of course I'm gonna say is it the best way because we know it's the best way
but is that kind of the best way to do it because it kind of seems like it could be the best way to
do it like it's definitely it's definitely you're not gonna get neat well not you're gonna minimize
the amount of stray voltage don't you kind of want to work with someone that has a higher instinct
for winning yeah then someone that's got to be coaxed and trained yeah exactly what I'm saying
that's what it seems like that's why it seems like it's a pretty good thing to me yeah it's almost
like what you rather have on your football team someone that I think about this think about
you're the who's the person that brings people onto the team it's not the coach but like the
GM I don't know so let's say you're in control of a football team and you're gonna take this
thing as far as you can this is your only job do you want the guy that you get that you have to
train a bunch to get him to be able to run a fast for fast 40 or do you want a guy that comes
out of the gate and he's kind of already there right this is the no-brainer of course now there are
outliers that I actually want this guy that was slow but he's such a hard worker and a grinder
that he's gonna excel anyways like I want that guy and guess what see what training does that you
know if you're a gazelle and you're really great athlete it doesn't test you as much as the guy
that's a grinder yeah but the guy that's a really great athlete has a little bit more value
out of the gate than the guy that's a grinder once you show up at the team though you want the
guy that's a grinder more than you want the guy that's a good athlete right yeah so almost like
it's all sort of and that's not a guarantee every time because there's some guys that were
freaking great athletes and they were just incredible so don't don't take that one wrong but
necessarily a guy that's a great athlete versus a guy that is just has can gut through it
probably I would lean towards the guy that can gut through it because he has a level of grit
you're not you don't face a pull-up bar out in the battlefield right you're not you don't you know
it's not there yeah and then and that makes sense I mean it's all kind of in the same bucket
really but where like these are just attributes right so how does life put it he'll say um
buds is just a screening process to weed out people who we don't think have the characteristics
to be successful on the battlefield which is a very eloquent way of putting it eloquent so those
characteristics aren't necessarily who can do the most pull-ups it's not that because look if you're
doing like there's a minimum though right obviously like you have to do a certain amount of
minimum is so minimum to like get to buds the minimum is so minimum it should be disqualifying
if you can actually only do that many right not kidding the minimum pull-ups go to buds is something
like 10 right tiny it's ridiculous yeah so just like how you said it's like okay we haven't
we have a minimum and that's sort of it so who cares if you can do 50 who cares really
we care about other stuff yeah well there's a well-rounded component right and and that's what
makes that's the thing that makes the seal training hard is you can't just be a fast runner
you can't just be a fast swimmer you can't just be strong upper body you can't just be comfortable
in the water you can't just be durable you gotta be all those things and what's hard is they're
contrary to each other right because being able to run 14 miles is one type of person that's
going to be really good at that being able to get through the obstacle course is another person
that has a lot of upper body strength this person has a lot of endurance this person have
and then you add in hey you need to be able to pick up your body and sprint with them over the
burn that's explosiveness so we want this really kind of middle of the road on a bunch of different
things well-rounded as opposed to someone that's just really good at one particular thing and
there's all kinds of people that show up that are great athletes in one category and it does a
work for yes so that the attribute of all the attributes that attribute about the guy who can
gut through stuff sort of lifts up all those attributes if didn't it not that high so let's say
that's the main one then yes yes you want the guy who that comes naturally to rather than the guy who
it might they're teaching may falter later I want that to be part of you makes sense part of you
and man what a good quality to have that's the thing that's that's the thing people look we
ever want to get to certain amount of talent you can decide to work hard you can decide to work
hard now now there are people that say that work ethic is a talent right I get that concept
and I think the reason it appears to be that way is because you get people that work so hard
that you think oh that must be a talent of theirs right to have this talent that you're going to work
so hard I don't I well I think that you have well you do you have way more influence over that
talent than you do over your explosive strengths yeah I mean infinitely more yeah because you can't I don't
know the of the seminal genetics expert but I don't know that there's a gene or a series of genes
that gives you work ethic yeah I would say the answers no right I mean not not all right I mean we
could check with the bro science like schools on that one yeah those but they're I bet you know when
they start breaking down this genetic stuff they're going to start finding stuff about people that's
going to be really interesting and some of it will be tight I mean I'm not going to say I'm Harris
you know you're every decision that you make is kind of pre-plan free will but you know I'm
sure Sam and I will have a chance to sit down if he has the courage to step up to the plates
and have a real conversation with me but but I bet as this stuff gets uncovered they will find
that there's a propensity like a propensity for focus yeah because that's what hard work is kind of
is just hey look like when I was going to college and I would get to I would do one semester I took
five English classes the dumbest thing I've ever done I would be so crushed with reading over you
know during the week but then on the weekend would come and I'd have to read five English
classes worth of reading and that was when I would be like okay I would have to like turn the
switch in my head and just go fall on sit there and read for 10 hours and read and remember what I
was reading so that was a switch it was like oh and I remember thinking myself I'd be talking to
other people that had one English class and they'd say I'd say they said did you do the reading
can you tell me what happened and I'd be like yeah of course I did the reading and they'd be like
I cannot sit down and read for that long and I'd be like no hey you don't care
be you like discipline see maybe I've got a little propensity to be able to turn it on or
maybe it just through force of will look I want to get an A in this class why because
because I don't want these instructors looking at me thinking that they got a little
sunk mommy no you don't got anything on me I'll read this material and I'll know it
yeah and all that it all that right there is it's so you do just so everyone realizes I'm not crazy
that's just gamification that's just gamification in my head to make things fun to make things
challenging right I'll do that with anything all day long you if I've got something to do I'm
gonna have a good time with it yeah we're gonna have a good time with it I'm fine so when you hear me
you know I was watching someone Larry Bird and he was this he's famous for talking trash
to all the other players and but he works so hard he was also famous for his work ethic
but I think there's a little bit of gamification right when you go I'm gonna do this to you I'm
gonna do like he would come down the court be any you he'd say like he'd say uh the here comes
three who wants it meaning come and try and guard me I'm gonna hit a three pointer and he would do it
yeah you know there's a little bit of gamification people respond well that so that's me
when I was going to college as a 28 year old man by the way I'm not talking I was an 18 year old
kid all worried about how I looked and what the party well I'm worried about any of that yeah
I was in there to win and in order to win I made it into a game for myself yeah oh you think you're
gonna ask me you think that you're gonna come up with a question on this reading material that you
gave me that I'm not gonna go to the answer to watch this so that way I'm actually banded tension
actually paying attention what's going on as opposed to I don't care doesn't really matter
I'm in the navy anyways who cares what I get for a grade ball ball ball ball ball I could make
those excuses all day you can always take the easy path if you want to it's always there
but you just gotta remember that it leads downhill and if you take the righteous path well
then you're gonna move in the right direction yeah but it still seems like you got all those
methods we'll say like from you know like you weren't born with that you know kind of thing
you know it seems like you know you got yes it does see it seems like it's a choice that I make
well and it seems also like where you like what you learned along the way what right how that's
what what lessons got reinforced you know what lessons got reinforced for me if I don't work hard I'll
lose yeah that lesson got reinforced I'm the over and over and over again if I don't work hard I'll
lose if I work hard I can do better I might not win but I can do better and I'll tell you something else
if your attitude is like if your attitude is only I'm gonna win like that's why I'm doing this
you're not gonna win every time but let me tell you what your attitude can be I might not win
every time but I'm gonna get your respect yeah you when you get done beating me when you get done
beating me and you shake my hand you're gonna mean it because you you had you you're gonna mean it
I'm gonna push you at a minimum that's what's happening so if you beat me and by the way I don't
hold it against you when you beat me I respect if you beat me I know you worked I know you got I know
you got after which is cool and I don't I don't held any angst whatsoever it's good actually
because I know that this guy worked hard with me and I know I got to work even harder so good for you
so that's that comes that's learned that's me learning as a kid oh I wasn't good at this
and even I looked back in my life now like I wasn't great at soccer I never played soccer outside
the soccer season other kids are running around dribble in the soccer ball whatever going to camp
whatever I didn't didn't care enough didn't we didn't understand the first thing that I got well
I got very focused in the sealed teams and in the sealed teams because you're going to get
high caliber people not all of them but you got some people to top of the bell curve that are
freaking bad asses and if you're if for me so I got these incredible athletes you know when I
checked in a sealed team one I'm gonna try and think this was probably 10 of us went to
sealed team one a pretty good chunk of you guys went to sealed team one there was some guys in
that went to sealed team one that were total athletic studs I mean infinitely better than me
and every category of athleticism you know and I knew like okay if I'm gonna hang with these guys
I'm gonna have to work really really hard just to hang with just to hang with not to beat them
just to hang with them so that idea gets reinforced over time okay if I don't work hard I'll be at the
bottom of the barrel and and then what it boils down to if I'm at the bottom of the barrel how much
am I helping with team because if I'm a if I'm a detriment to the team now now what am I
even doing with my life right I do not want to be a detriment to the team I want to be a
positive to the team and even though I might not be the best guy in the pollton I might not be the
strongest the fastest the best shot whatever those things are if I'm third or fourth or fifth in
some of those categories okay well now I'm a benefit to the team now I can help which is what
it all boils down to and what it all boils down to is like you know you can make an excuse for yourself
and live with it a little bit but you can't make an excuse for the team meaning hey look even in
extreme case well you know if I'm not that great of a shot and the enemy gets a shot off
quicker than me oh well I'm gonna die that's the that's the job of got that's the choice of you
know whatever but if you just play that out one step further if I don't get this shot off
this guy will have the chance to shoot one of my buddies that's you need to put more rounds down
range you need to shoot more you need to get better and faster fast run your reloads fast run your
draw faster in your side picture that's what you need to get better because you don't let your
teammates down yeah so when that's what's really driving you that's powerful that's more powerful
than I just want to be the best I don't want to just be the best because you can give yourself a little
slack in there but when you look at it you say oh I don't want to let my teammates down they're
counting on me that will make you stay up later that will make you wake up earlier that will drive
you to try and be better and that lesson that lesson on me got reinforced over and over again
and if I didn't work hard then I wouldn't be I failed something in Buds called pool competency
and I should I to fail it right and I was gonna say I shouldn't have failed it and the reason
I was gonna say I shouldn't have failed it was because I was comfortable in the water I
done all the water stuff kind of first time every time meaning not tying in life saving I was good
I felt really comfortable and so when I failed it I was sort of I was deeply disappointed
that I failed it and I was hyper worried that maybe I'm not gonna make it through this training
and so we mean a couple of the other guys that failed we spent the entire weekend
in the dip tank which is the little box that you fill with water to clean stuff in
and I don't even know why the instructor's lettuce he was dive gear I have no idea why this was not safe
and maybe we just did it I don't really remember but we got in this dip tank and we
did pool comp to each other for hours and we just ripped the stuff off and ripped you know
crossed each other until we went through the procedure so many times when I went to retake pool
comp it was it was easy it was easy when I went to retake it on Monday so what what lesson got reinforced
I need to prepare more I need to work harder I need to go to the extra distance or else I can fail
so there's another little reinforcement I told you this one before I failed the run in seal training
why did I fail run I failed the run in seal training because I paced myself and said well you
know I'll save a little something and I didn't have anything to save what I needed to do was run as hard as I could
so I failed the run when I paced myself the next run what did I do when that when they said go
I ran as fast as I could for the entire thing because you're not allowed to wear a watch so you have no idea
what the time is you just and so you think about that you think about when you're cruising on a run versus
when you're running as hard as you can it's hard to tell where that cruise level's at because
am I running am I running a six minute mile if I'm cruising am I running a six thirdier
or am I running a seven twenty it can be hard to judge especially when you're sore like your
your body sore so you know if you did if you did 500 eight count body builders at three o'clock in the
morning and then you go out and you run your run your pace you might seem like you're running faster
than you really are so when I learned from that I failed the run and now what I have to do I've
realized I can never let off again can ever so there's a little lesson getting reinforced
over and over and over again don't leave it up to chance don't leave it up to chance do let
do the work and that's the way that's how you develop these things no one told me no one told me
what I just said I would maybe I wish somebody's would have and the reason I say maybe is because
maybe you still don't learn it because there's some things that you have to actually go through
there's some things that the only thing that's going to teach you is experience yeah and
even like these you went through these things where the environment sort of provided these lessons
no matter how like over or covert they were like provided to you through the environment like
you know like a like a farmer or something like this someone who's sort of grew up just working
hard as a way of life you put them in another environment we're working hard will show itself
or whatever or they'll work hard yeah because the environment sort of provided that whatever
so yeah so that makes sense you know and obviously we can't count every second of your life
and years where this came from and it was it you know obviously but it seems like the work ethic
and being able to like show fortitude like mentally through things or whatever it seems like
that's an environmental thing fully it is and that's why redcurrence was biking five miles to work
in five miles home every day monday through Saturday yeah six days a week get some up in
will please upill both ways so that is what they learned in this training some of these things
that we just talked about and and again the book details these things really well but we're going
to jump ahead right now to a chapter five accrues to North Africa on the ship I bordered
and after endless trudging along narrow passageways and up and down the steep stairs and
gangways I was directed to an area below the waterline after the ship soon after casting off
we learned that we were heading for Algiers from where we would take part in a combined
operation by Great Britain in the United States codenamed operation torch that's legit you get on
this ship to leave you don't even know where you're going you're just going to go get some
you yeah that's what you know you're going to go get some
moving forward here they're on the ground um and again I hate to skip these parts this is a book
you got to get and I'll talk about how to get it again because it's not a normal book we were
informed that our objective was an enemy emergency air strip close to a place called Suk El Arba
in Tunisia along the way we were attacked by two M.E.109s but these were success we shot down by our
escorts of Spitfires boom thanks to the Americans easing their rule about smoking on aircraft
I managed to feel more relaxed by puffing through half a dozen cigarettes so now they're going
for their jump by the way they're going to jump into this um into this emergency air strip
it was a three hour journey in very hot and humid heat and we sat in the plane sweating like
pigs singing songs and cracking jokes to try and hide our feelings chunky said well lofty
that's his nickname he brings up a couple times well lofty won't be long now
see you in heaven you must be joking mate I replied turtley he's got to be a damn good
Jerry to catch up with me then the order was bellowed out action stations it made me shiver
hook up I was sweating sweating like hell and fell a bit weak at the knees I wondered out loud
what sort of reception are we going to get what mate crabsriast oh nothing I'm uttered
I hooked up my line with shaky fingers managing to endure 10 minutes of standing
while the plane came to in to drop us at the airfield out in the wild 70 miles
from Tunis so the reason I put that part of there is just letting everybody know especially
you young troopers out there that are going on hold the line you're going to be scared
and even this guy that is just a fundamental badass across the board is shaking fingers
he's sweating profusely he's scared and by the way he's hiding it to the best of his ability
he's keep he's stifling that emotion continue on the jump master's piercing voice cut through
the sound of the aircraft stand to the door I swallowed hard and prepared for the exit
when the order to go rang in my ears I became a changed man it suddenly felt so much cooler
being whisked about in the air all around me were hundreds of parachutes we were finally dropping
in action there you go so you're going to be scared once you get in the action you'll settle down
and okay so now this is the land they move and now they get into a situation
we were machine gun costly one minute we were in put in buses and the next taking cover
once with Pat Dolan and chunky I dash for safety across an open ground and slid into a hundred feet
slid into a hollow 100 feet from a derode as three small specks of mishrishmets
came diving straight for us from 4,000 feet I lay on my stomach looking at the aircraft through
my camouflage net scarf as they came in fast much closer now and three of them open fire one
concentrating on the road transport the other two honor men scrambling for cover on each side of the road
bullet slash the ground ten feet from us kicking up fountains of dust bloody hell pat that was
close said chunky they circled and came in for another run this time really low only about
50 feet from the ground a couple of our act-act guns let fly jerry let rip and muck seem to be
flying everywhere mainly rock splinters and dust as one aircraft clattered by I saw quite
plainly the pilot with a white scarf around his neck you fucking fool you might have killed us
someone shouted and then let out a bellowing laugh amazingly after all that strafing no one was
seriously hurt and only two of our vehicles were rendered unserviceable as time went on things
continued to hot up and the buses were soon abandoned in favor of foot slogging so again this is like
a horrifying thing to think about these measures met one-on-nines coming down and strafing you
with machine gun this pushing forward a little bit in the book there another situation
then they turn towards us three stucodive bombers approaching us at about five thousand feet the
sky was clear invisibility was good it was most weird not knowing whether they were interested in
us or just passing but they were interested in us all right the leading pilot made half a roll
and nose down the preliminary commencing that awe-inspiring stucodive angle of 85 degrees as it
wind nearer I could see the evil go-win shape so clearly it seemed to be approaching me head on
and it was and I was at my wits end as to whether I should get out and run for it or stay safely
put but possibly perish before I could make up my mind us off for black dots moving away from the
aircraft they were bombs seemingly aimed directly at me they're discent accompanied by a high-pitch
scream I gripped my smock and braised myself the sides of my slit trench took shook and a shower
of freshly dug soil cascaded over my face partly filling the trench Christ that's closed I thought
it allowed the other two stucos came into repeat the treatment and there seemed to be a never-ending
succession of bombs violently vibrating around then the drone aircraft drifted away and as
as black smoke below slowly skyward voices began to ring out as men sought to
sought reassurance that others were okay chunky was there on the edge of my trench asking
if I was all right putting on a brave front I said I was and I was except for a little excretion
but then getting away with nothing more than a wet pants after that lot did not hurt my pride
I didn't tell the others though so that freaking bombs drop right on top of them
pistons pants no factor happy to be alive continue on we need only been in and this is
again skipping we had only been in Tunisia for a few days in our bag of enemy killed or captured
was fast increasing together with quite an assortment of armored cards motorbikes and weapons
they get into some gun fights I found myself going on a volunteer burial party for men
known to be lost or killed in action for any dead or wounded paras that's a parachute guys
the Arabs could be the biggest menace as some of them would think nothing of stripping
a corpse of its clothing and then just leaving it if a ring would not come off the finger with
ease the finger might be severed to achieve their greedy end at times it was reported that wounded
both sides were mutilated by these scum and here he's out on these um basically like on a
little burial party after some of these battles had taken place we came upon two more paras
one lying by a large rock a jagged cut with dried blood right across his temple
the other just a few yards away looking a bloated blue green
I had seen dead soldiers before usually just after being killed but this retrieving of
private papers of private papers and dog tags from dead men was not in my book of training
and I was lost for a moment wondering if I was alone in this nightmare
and then there's a there's a podray with a minister with him and he says the podray broke
the silence by inquiring in a most serene voice now who have we here we buried those two side by
side and then he goes forward here things were beginning to hot up now and we found ourselves
taking part in some large scale skirmishes with an enemy who is not going to take it all lying down
now he says hot up he doesn't say heat up and he says that throughout the books that's why
I prayed for a little extra expression on it so people don't think that I was misreading it
but he says things were beginning to hot up now maybe we'll bring that back
and here we go fast forward a little bit I was just taking a position with the mortar
when the CEO went around firing his pistol on the open side slots of the tanks and calling
for the crews to come out so here's the CEO and there's some tanks some enemy tanks and this
guy's approaching him with the pistol on reaching the third tank shots were fired back and he fell
clutching his chest followed by his agitin captain Miles Whitelock who is hitting the face
amid the general den of battle I was too busy to get trying to get dug into the rocky soil to
make out exactly what had happened but soon learned that the CEO had been severely wounded and
major Pearson was now to take over command it was a great blow to me at this time also to hear
the death of my old friend Stanley Wandless I was horrified by a different site and a
enormous brute of a pig munching away at a dead German soldier it seemed the pig had somehow
come across the wine in this farm got filthy drunk and was eating everything
such scenes became horribly familiar but my stomach gradually grew accustomed to them
on Christmas day 1942 I watched the rain fall as I tried to make myself a little more comfortable
in my slit trench rain trickled down my neck my hands were wet and cold and if I had had a
cigarette I would have enjoyed it my feet had been constantly wet for god knows how long and I was
beginning to feel a teeny bit browned off when good news we were being withdrawn for arrest off we went
to sucel comis where I thoroughly enjoyed the luxury of a mobile bathroom it de-lousing and refitting
it was heaven but we soon returned to the grind once more so again I picked out some highlights of
the first kind of action that they had but you have to get the book to kind of follow along exactly
what they'd been through but they'd been through really tough fighting and then finally they get the
they get the turn they get the word that they're going to take a little break which they do but
you know like I said earlier it's it's a little break it's not big and just like I talked about
the times where you get a little reprieve from the cold wet miserable but then you'd
it's time to go back in and that's what you have to do and these guys do that.
going on here between the two they're then up in this spot between the two towns is a hill called
Jebel Montmansoir the commanding height to the pont du tunis road it's 2000 feet above sea level
five miles around at the base and has an easiest climbing angle of 45 degrees also known by
us as hill 648 it was occupied by crack German Africa core and alpine troops and it was our
job to take it at all costs. I thought this word would be a tough nut to crack but the
men were determined to win through this through but the men were determined to win through
and shift the enemy once and for all we checked our arms and ammunition and collected 48 hours
of rations. So there's this dominant high ground that they need to take and it's got their
Africa core who I talked about earlier it's got the alpine troops these are these are really good
German troops and this point early in the war you know this is when this is when the German
military was really really good I mean later in the war they were still good but they you know
they suffered massive casualties and they started having like little you know younger troops
inexperienced troop Hitler youth you know kids that were 14 years old out on the front lines
getting after it this is early in the war these are experienced troops you know these are the troops
that were this is where you know the the Prussian roots of military genius are showing through
and these troops and this is it this is these are tough tough this is a tough enemy so going on here
we started off and it was quite a long way over rough and uneven ground before we halted at
the base of an ugly massive looking hill the usual advanced bombardment that preceded most
attacks was not forthcoming on this occasion as we wanted to maintain the element of surprise
this time Jerry would be first to rock the boat as we waited at the base of the hill the sky now
and again became bright with German nightlights which when fired heavenward made the whole area
quite luminous everyone froze until they fell to earth and safety returned once more in the form of
semi-darkness in this waiting game I found my thoughts strange back to England what I could do for a
couple of finds pints of English beer there's not until four o'clock in the next morning we ventured
carefully toward forward through the undergrowth up went to more German nightlights then two more
then still more the places illuminated like daylight they must have got wind of us or smelt us
we could determine the nationality of a soldier from at fifty feet if the wind was favorable
so probably they could do the same from the top of the hill two machine guns began firing
then more joined in as the place were alive with them and they slashed and ripped mercilessly
at the brack and slicing the branches of trees as if an invisible sharp knife had done the job
I'll pull it went through my trouser leg gazing my thigh but I didn't think too much of it as I was
still mobile German mortar started hitting the approach slope and yells a pain here and there told
me to take more care the wine overhead was also warning that the enemy artillery was joining in
as things hot it up with the occasional tracer bullet mixed in with the machine gun fire I could
almost feel the hot led piercing my limbs it was certain I would not get away with this time
farther back things had gone wrong with our usual stalwart mules the amazing animals that
carried our heavy gear where men could not set foot they didn't appreciate the sudden shelling
and bolted out of control major clums be Thompson managed around some of them up with the
help of a French officer major pre-alue and then all housing to be let loose our man our men yelling
woo hoo Muhammad as the R&T companies went in with their bayonets unfortunately asked company
miss their correct route the tapes laid to assist their assent had been damaged or cut by the enemy
activity and at the count we were to find that they had suffered extremely heavy casualties and
this can't of woo hoo Muhammad this is throughout the time that they're fighting in Africa and they do it
when they get to Europe as well it's just the we something that the locals did and they started doing it
too it's kind of like the term gung ho which gung ho the the Chinese turn which means work it's
actually a Chinese communist term which means work together and you know we use it and they started
using it I believe isn't a Korean war they started using that term but I had been in World War
II working with the Chinese anyway I the I must have been when it was must have been
we're doing World War II when they were working with the Chinese and the Chinese would say gung ho
work together kind of means get fired up down well now yeah that's how we use it Americans
we can take work together and turn it into get after it the barrage we were set up against was intense
and a ricocheting bullet or shell splinter often did as much damage or more that is straightforward
burst of fire we could occasionally be lucky at one time an artillery shell failed to explode on
impact with the ground and went on mercilessly ricocheting three times before coming to a rest with a doll
plop but the bombardment was unrelenting and we had to work and we had our work cut out here
there was agonizing shrieks of pain right and left to me as I passed unrecognizable
as I passed men unrecognizable soaked in blood being tended to a barrage splendid medics
those unsung unarmed heroes Sam cost her and Frankie Thompson reached the summit and searched
out and dealt with the enemy with no ceremony whatsoever as Sam told me afterward Frankie was
lunging and tossing men with his bayonet as though he as though they were sacks of straw
Frankie was a big chap usually very friendly and quietly spoken but an action
a different man picture that bayonet on your rifle and your throwing men off of it lunging
and throwing men with the bayonet as if they were sacks of straw Frankie Thompson done play
amid the turn all the turmoil and dead and wounded of both sides the curtain of fire had lifted
and it was not a sound this is once they get up to the hilltop looking around the hilltop
only a few of our men could be seen moving among the twisted forms our R T and S companies
had suffered very heavy casualties more than half of the battalion officers had been killed or wounded
he as they kind of get settled on the top of the hill he as they're preparing for a counter
attack which they know the Germans are going to do he gets sort of tasked with going around and helping
and gather up the sick dead or the wounded in the dead he goes on here setting about the job of
collecting the wounded was something sickening as I gazed upon the scene of our once able and
live comrades now quite still or with torn limbs I wondered whether there was any such thing as civilization
I bet hard on my lip and went about my task with grim determination
looking around for someone to help I noticed a lad who is in the same troop as me early in
1941 hello taffy and one of you been up to like a lift that's how he greets this guy cheers lofty
and like I said lofty is the nickname of red cheers lofty is nice to see someone alive he said
weirdly he was in a sitting position and apparently been hit by no fewer than five bullets
they were all clean flesh wounds in the calf five four arm and one through the apex of his
penis and all rather uncomfortable but no broken bones he was pretty well saturated with blood
but cheerful let's try a fireman's carry I suggested he'd had a shot of morphine so I didn't think
he'd feel he would feel too much anything to get away from here he said at that point Jerry started
up again with artillery and mortars then a few snipers and to make it really interesting
some sookah dive bombers stuccus dive bombers to join in the chorus let's get going before it gets
too hot I've got to get you on my back I said so once again this is you know he's saying this
so kind of matter of faculty he's up there trying to rescue this wounded guy who's obviously
badly wounded he's been shot five times and then they start with artillery and mortars
and then snipers and then stuccadive bombers that's what's going on and then he says he says
let's get going before it gets too hot it's like it doesn't get any hotter
I've got to get you on my back I said I managed to get him over my shoulder without causing too much pain
and we started along the long trek through wounded country ravines and open waste it was a
ticklish and tender drop job but for two hours we struggled on I was sweating like two pigs and he
goes through a description of how hard it was to get this guy to an area where he could get some
of the help that he needed once he gets that guy dropped off continuing on I joined a section
comprising men from T and S companies they were mostly newcomers I wondered what to become of all
the friends I had not seen since the attack started one of the lads told me that major canron
had been killed and captain meller too I felt so alone no disrespect to the reinforcements
but the cream of our men were fast disappearing in the foothills of Tunisia
Jerry was counter attacking in earnest now and slinging everything at us in the way of explosives
with batches of stuccadive bombers joining in at two hour intervals and making things even more
deafening the muck was falling heavily and a splinter from a nearby bursting bomb
slashed of vain in my right hand while another praying to my helmet
nipping over rocks and creeping through bracken and bush under a hail of bullets and screaming
shells I had become I became cut off from the party of men I'd been attached to I was making
good progress and stopping for a breather dropped into a small depression in the ground.
Suddenly alone German pounced on me from the rear I realized what was happening instantly
when I saw the field gray cut of his uniform my schmizer which was out of ammunition was
slung band-lear fashion over my shoulder but I had an american 45 automatic cult ready in my right hand
I went down on one knee summoned up the unarmed combat I had been taught
grabbed him by the scruff of the neck and heaved him with all my force over my head it was my turn now
and I was not so gentle as he rolled onto his back I sprang and landed my 14 stone weight
feet first on his chest grabbing the cult which I had released to dangle on its landyard I
started to squeeze the trigger shouting you butcher bastard to his no no comrade no no no
I pulled the trigger but it was empty I grabbed his rifle check that it was loaded and ordered him
to his feet donka donka he kept saying hugging his chest as we moved off and with that he
starts moving to get this prisoner back under control arriving back at Borada after the
formality of delivering my prisoner to custody I rejoin the rest of the battalion we were in
great need of rest and a refit and we were and we're all sent by truck to a place called
tabursuk some 60 miles away wall Borada was handed over with thanks to the Americans
we were very soon back with the great so they get a little breather we were very soon back with a
brigade this time in the Jebel aboid area the brigade's manpower was well down with the enemy
and the enemy usually outnumbered us three to one death ridge as my pet one parah
as my first parah position in happy valley was known also developed the name shell shock ridge
I tried closing my eyes at any given explosion it was a terrible feeling like waiting to be
massacred the German started to mount an attack it was daylight and I could see motorized
enemy units being dropped off at points as near as they dared to our positions three or four
miles off in the direction of sedegene they spread out and extended order and started tortoise
we were told to hold our fire until the last minute so the whole first battalion lay very quiet
and still and we mortars saturated the area I felt the draft of an exploding shell which
defamed my left ear and left it ringing and at the same time propelled me to the bottom of my trench
making me even wetter than I already was now the mortar braided lift and I'm skipping ahead a
little bit now the mortar brazed lifted and I could hear the silence of the solider machine gun fire
as it severed the undergrowth the enemy getting near all the time 60 yards 50 yards 40 yards
I peaked gingerly over the edge of my hole in the ground 30 yards 20 yards then above the din
the order was bellowed fire fire fire advance advance as we went out to meet them the
battalion flung everything the enemy that it flung everything at the enemy that it could
Tommy guns brand guns stand guns capped captured solathorns and smithers grenades English
German Natayan coupled with the cry of woo hoo Muhammad gripping my rifle I advanced through
the murderous fire the haze of smoke and the accurate smell of explosives every available man was
on this one even the cooks before long the tables had turned in our favor with two dead
paras lying to my left I hopped over a dead German and came upon a wounded one a little to my
right he was contemplating using a luger pistol but I booted it from his hand and clomped him
in the face with the butt of my rifle the whole episode was soon over with the enemy beating a
hasty retreat and leaving a bag of captured clean shaven German parasheus flown in direct from
Germany to deal with us one a shock for them so that's like just again whatever a couple
paragraphs maybe two paragraphs and I mean it's total insanity right the guys are 20 yards away
before they get the the order not only to fire but to advance continuing on this is now they're
doing a coordinated attack while we pushed on with two paras and three paras brought up the rear
the British 139th brigade attacked on our right in time the pimple on this name of like a little
null was retaken and our brigade proceeded to press home the final assault amidst devastating artillery
and mortar fire from both sides tragically we found that we had gone a little too fast for our
25 pounders to increase their range quickly enough and we suffered heavy casualties from our own fire
at daylight I passed a jock Pearson crouched by a rock bellowing into a field radio and none
too pleased with the person on the other end what do you think you're doing he wrote you're killing
all my bloody men so little horrible blue on blue scenario happening man everything but everything
seemed to be in our favor now even the weather was kinder and we must have advanced about eight
miles under a curtain of continuous fire both until both Italians and Germany were ready to
give in and we're running to be captured so think about this scene with just massive fire and you're
advancing under that fire for eight miles they get um they're they're doing this they're continuing
to advance in this part and here measure schmets buzz the area spraying the ground spasmotically
and causing those nearest to drop quickly into convenient holes we pushed on at a steady pace
passed demolition guns past demolished guns and supplied dumps the air stinking with a pollen butchery
I glanced and stinctively towards a shell burst fifty yards away as I watched its jet black smoke
belt skyward my gaze was transfixed by something odd on the ground I wanted if it could be a human
drawing nearer I saw that it was the roasted body of a man in the sitting position he must have
been driving a scout car or light vehicle as there were small pieces of charred twisted metal
spread fifty feet around with dismembered arms and legs torn and blood soaked uniforms
littering the black scorched soil the aroma was diabolical someone accidentally brushed the
sitting form on passing and the body simply disintegrated with a sickly sound fast forwarding a bit
the smell of burnt flesh coated in my direction and I quickly and I quick into my pace to get
clear of it plotting on in these awful humid and dusty conditions I think I felt almost immune
to wearing this and the shocking sights of war nothing seemed to be able to stop us now
and this is again you got to read this book but this site sort of concludes this section the first
parachute brigade group was not destined to take part in the final push to tuna's our role
in the campaign had come to an end and we were withdrawn from the line so ending five months hard
slog and again that we were just burning through this book and I'm skipping so many sections
this stuff is this is five months this is half a year just about of this type of fighting
originally trained as shock troops in Tunisia after the initial parachute assaults
we had served as plain infantry but that's just the way the wind blew for us
metals were plentiful and all ranks had earned them eight distinguished service orders
15 military crosses nine distinguished conduct metals 22 military metals
three raw digger and one legion to honor in their own way even our German adversaries had
recognized the brigades fighting ability by naming us the red devils for those who are there
though the price of success was unspeakably high we had lost more than 1700 men killed wounded
or missing so again I hate to burn through five months of insane fighting
and I'll take a dig at red right now like he's so matter of fact about stuff and he only
hits on the high points I'm hitting on the high points of the high points right just insane
insane to think about that for five months so from there they're transported from Tunisia
back to Algeria and they spend time training for a drop into Sicily a parachute drop
in Sicily which once again you're fighting in Africa look it's really tough conditions in
Africa now you're getting closer to Germany like you're going into going into Sicily you know
what's waiting for you it was hoped that if Sicily could be taken it might prompt an Italian
surrender a large proportion of my battalion including myself now went down with this entry
goes in and talking about a lot of that this is no this is just it's like no nothing's easy
between exercises we acclimat acclimatized our reinforcements to use every
they're used every type of enemy weapons including Schmeizer automatic which we found superior to our own
standgun so now they start preparing for this mission in Sicily there were three bridges to take
in Sicily and the password for them was to be desert rats with the reply kill Italians
as the plane took off chunky said well this is it our second operation
I tried to act normally but could feel the sweat running down my cheek so once again he's
stifling some emotions in here they go getting on this getting ready to do this drop
and this is just it's just crazy as we drew nearer to our objective and at a thousand feet
I could see the flack and tracer zipping past the wing of the aircraft for 30 minutes we
dodged everything they threw at us but it was a tens half hour as we were helpless to do anything
so you're in an airplane you're getting ready to parachute and there's flack bombs exploding around
you trying to take down your aircraft and tracer fires zipping but you know how much protection
an aircraft gives you from tracer fire from machine gunfire zero what's flack so it's anti-aircraft
they set it for a certain altitude it goes up in the air and then just blows up in hopes that
some of that shrapnel will hit the aircraft and damage the aircraft and take them down
so flack jacket is to roll it so flack actually flack is just little chunks of its fragmentation
right all chunks of metal that that come off of explosive device that could grenade or a artillery
round that's going to blow up like on purpose yes that's what it for and then a flack jacket
is to protect you from flack good yeah and in the old days like the flack the term
flack jacket the flack jacket would protect you from flack it wouldn't protect you from a bullet
because flack isn't going as fast as a bullet is so like an old school Vietnam flack jacket
wouldn't stop bullets but it would protect you from flack yeah like motorcycle jacket kind of thing
like it's like it'll it'll protect you but not from the real deal yeah yeah yeah so even
so even nowadays right the expression like don't give me any flack it's like kind of that yeah yeah
exactly yeah exactly what it is so these guys are up there and like he says helpless
and by the way this is a half an hour of this
suddenly we were given continuing suddenly we were given the order to hook up I did so
and waited the engines cut back on the approach to our drops on we descended to around 600 feet
with all sorts of rubbish whizzing by and the plane pitching and tossing like a toy in a vast
vacuum then there came a terrific explosion as our tail was hit the order jump man jumped
screamed in my ears and I tumble through the doorway into the void below so they are craft finally
takes a devastating hit he doesn't he doesn't mention whether the aircraft made it or not he just
says that it you know the tail was hit hard I can't imagine that's super easy to fly a plane
what's the tail's been blown off now he gets on the ground again fast forward a little bit
on the ground about 300 yards in my left was the main coastal road to the town of
Katania and enemy traffic wasn't tremendous confusion to my rear I could hear Italian voices
and about a hundred yards to my right Germans wrapping out orders then now the road came a 15
strong German patrol they could have been parachutists judging by their dress and head gear
fortunately I was not alone when they were just a few yards off and we opened up on them
there were some grunts, groans and sickly yelps then silence we slipped on in the direction of the
bridge around which our men were by now silently killing harassing and panicking the German
Italian defenders at night small battles raged unceasingly and we were pinned down for a long
time by mortar fire when daylight broke though I saw the for the first time the vast mountain scenery
at the base of which we had been fighting again I'm just jumping through stuff then the sun starts
to come up it became warm and then the heat became intense a typical you're never you can never just
be comfortable it's always like freezing cold or too hot you would you he had 15 minutes where
it was warm and then they were too hot there had been no firing for some time and I realized that
the enemy was no longer with us scanning the countryside I could see burnt out cars Italian tanks
and ammunition dumps the smell of burnt bodies and oil filled the air I was glad to move on
such a confusion of our brigade such was the confusion of our brigade drop that come daylight
three men from the men from three parah discovered they spent all night fighting alongside the
men of first pair without realizing it at the bridge it was clear that there had been a fierce battle
the pill boxes had been rushed and dealt with ruthlessly here the brigade mustard approximately
180 men but the three inch mortars in ammunition had not arrived and there was a lack of communication
without side units wireless sets those are radios had been either incorrectly netted back in
Africa were damaged on the landing or just did not arrive we learned that German parachutists
from the third regiment of the first fallshemierger division had dropped simultaneously on our
drops on the previous night so we must have indeed have brushed shoulders with them when we
came upon that 50 man patrol how crazy is that you're jumping into a drop zone and the
Germans are jumping in there too and then he grows as things start to escalate he's talking
around how hot it was like hot as in not heat temperature but hot as in enemy action little
wonder things were so warm the area within an approximately two mile radius of the bridge was
festoon with 88 millimeter and 20 millimeter guns pill boxes machine gun pits and also a few
coastal guns and we were engaging with crack German troop including pair troops they presented a good
target whenever they got too near the bridge you could not miss but word run around that our supply
of ammunition was now drastically low conserve ammunition in fire only when you are absolutely certain
of a kill was the order but do in due course members of the first and third pair of battalions
at the northern end of the bridge with Drew to join us at the southern end the enemy was getting
harder to ward off as tanks and tanks began to appear now we got tanks enemy tanks on the scene
we were using captured Italian 40 millimeter anti tank gun along with our own anti tank gun
the battle worked up to a terrific climax the Germans were sending their best troops in an effort to
shift us their pair of troopers probing for weak spots and allowing no respite food was in our
haversax but there was no time to get it it was fire fire and keep on firing finally there was a
wall at about 1830 or soon after giving us a chance to take stock maybe the Germans wanted to
regroup I checked my ammunition and found only four rounds left plus one in the chamber
at 1930 we were ordered to withdraw in order to avoid capture and go in small groups we made it off
in a westernly direction toward the gona loung the gona lunga river if we could use the river
and the road running parallel to it as a guide for a couple miles perhaps then we could be
clear of any enemy concentrated attack so these guys are basically bagging out of the area
and as they're doing their doing in small groups at one point as darkness fell we came upon a
deserted farmhouse but decided not to enter as it was quite near an abandoned flat gun pit
we thought both sides would be we thought both could be booby trapped it was approximately
zero 200 by now we were very tired in hungry we dosed off in an orchard 20 feet from the edge
each man at the base of a different tree so as to be less conspicuous so they spend the night in this
orchard and then they set off once again we saw no more of the enemy via lentini
we reached Augusta some 50 miles from Primisol Bridge finding the town in our hands it was a great
site to see so many of our own troops and tanks and so they continue on reaching Syracuse without
miss hop on this on the 17th of July just four days after dropping in Sicily we soon set sail
arriving back at Sous in Tunisia on the 20th our first parachute brigade group had not only suffered
heavily in the North African campaign but in Sicily too where we had lost a further 300 men killed
wounded or missing it was time to rest refit regroup and reorganized and we also
got to relax so I mean this this is a group of men that are now just hardened combat
that's and yet there's no war there's no end to this in sight right I mean there's no end
hey I guess if you looked at it from a strategic perspective knowing what we know today maybe you
could say there's an end in sight but if you know you're barely surviving this you're barely
surviving it you know what the end is I mean you have to accept what the end is probably in a
big the end is probably gonna be you're not gonna live in early November we were told that the whole
first airborne division was returning to England and the first parachute brigade would leave
from Algiers at the end of the month on the 29th of September we shipped out of Algiers
on the SS Samaria happily heading for Liverpool now one particular chap made a popular appearance
Peter the battalions unofficial lovable dog Peter liked water and jumping from planes and was the
only parachute dog on record at first he was owned by a lad named topor brown and rumor had it
they had both escaped from Dunkirk in 1940 Peter was a marvel and could do almost anything
asked of him never forgetting a trick put a stone on his nose and back away and he'd remain motionless
but at a given command he would toss and catch that stone water was his god there had been static
tanks eight feet deep at bullford into which a stone could be thrown Peter would retrieve it no time
and then sit patiently waiting for another run when we had set off from North Africa in October
the previous year he had been smuggled aboard the a run the castle everyone helping in the
scheming to get him aboard and keep him fed exercised and comfortable he had been left behind in Algieria
in the good care of the cooks and the rear echelon party when we went on to meet the enemy in
Tunisia where topor brown was taken prisoner and sadly never heard of again
corporal Jim Nash the battalion hairdresser of our company then took care of Peter
and is it was at mate more in Algieria during training for the Sicily operation that Jim took him
up for his first jump from an aircraft a special bag had been made who was fixed to Jim's front
with a hole at the top for Peter's head to protrude they made a perfect landing Peter running off as
happy as Larry wagging his tail after various other escapades Peter returned to Algieria's and was
smuggled aboard the Samaria where he was having a great time until the locker door of his hiding
place was accidentally left unsecured during one of our boat drill procedures and he ventured out on
his own he was found wandering below by the ship's officer who ordered him to be put over the side
we were just two days out from Liverpool the men were furious and it was just as well that the
officer responsible could not be found as a roving band of justice seeking Paris could not have been
expected to be lenient as far as Peter was concerned he had such enthusiasm for water that maybe
he was fitting to end up in a sea grave but we felt as loss I don't mind admitting that we fighting
men had a soft side even after all we'd seen and done perhaps especially after all we'd seen
and done I wrote Peter a poem entitled Epitaph to a friend it's last verse as follows Peter made us
happy and carefree he had no military apparel he made just two jumps his grave is the sea
his wings truly earned and the name red devil kind of a theme that we see come up from time to time
the attachment that soldiers can get to these to these dogs that they they come across at some point
and unfortunately recurring theme is some rear echelon person doesn't understand killing those animals
and I also thought it was you know it's interesting that line I don't mind admitting that
we fighting men had a soft side even after all we'd seen and done and they says perhaps especially
after all we'd seen and done that's something that is I mean I think that's absolutely true you know you
there's no better there's the sunset looks a million times that infinitely better when you know
the sacrifices that have been made to see the sunset the white bedsheets that you get to sleep on
you appreciate infinitely more when you've been sleeping in the dirt for six months and it goes on and on and on
then so when you see when you see the depravity that that human beings are capable of
well that can actually expose the fact that you really can cherish all innocent
let us in a little dog
and these guys arrived back home get stationed the first battalion get stationed at
Grim's Thorpe Castle and at this point they know something really big is in the air
and he says here in August men coming from our old training area of Tatten Park
reported seeing thousands of tanks there like a giant tank park sure enough in mid-September
we were finally setting off somewhere I checked over my gear one gammon bomb two dot three six
hand grenades combined pick and shovel webbing equipment with small pack two ammunition pouches
and bandlear with three oh three ammunition water bottle mess tin iron ration field dressing
camouflage net scarf triangle shape air recognition bright yellow silk scarf tied around the neck
for ready for instant use rifle and an escape kit comprising of a silk map of Europe a small
button compass and a strong file the size of a nail file that was about it except for a
kit bag strap to the leg and parachute plus may-west life jacket in case we finished up in the
drink I felt like an overdue pregnant hippo and didn't know where to put anything else
though still I added 200 cigarettes two bars of chocolate and some boiled sweets
it's interesting the yellow scarf for recognition and he specifically says tied around the neck for
instant use and it's interesting we we kind of I always carried one the basic reason why I
was carried one because I was a radio man when I was a young and listed guy and I used it at times
I had learned the value of it signaling helicopters and signaling boats in the jungle like if you
and the weird thing is you when you're in a boat let's say you're in a river along the jungle
there's so much jungle to look at that it's really hard to see someone waving their hand like
it seems so obvious when you're waving at some waving at a boat hey hey I'm over here the
first of all they can't hear you because they're running engines shoot machine guns they can't hear you
and second because they're looking at whatever quarter mile or half a mile of green
bush they got this whole thing to try and find you and you're in a green camouflage uniform
and you're waving your they can't see you so you need I would always have a aircraft panels what we
call them aircraft sing with panel which is just bright fluorescent orange and I could whip that
thing out really quickly and then it then you become a lot more visible same thing with the aircraft
overhead well in a body it didn't take long before everyone was carrying that because and they were
carrying big ones too like a platoon or like an element that was going in a building would have a
big giant one that you could hang out a window everyone we are here hey friendly forces we are here
so even this guy World War II that bright yellow silk scarf in important signaling device at the hand
he says I I wondered how the rest of the men were going to fare on this hop
I was just getting used to the new faces like Frankie Panzer Manzer Bill Silberry Terry Brace Dick
Bingley Dolly Gray major parent brown Sid Oxley Guv Beach with his top hat the Germans
will surrender in surprise if he takes him with that I thought Joe McReedy patty McCormick
and Captain Joe Gardner that mean just I just had to read those names for two reasons number one
because they sound like the best bunch of characters you could ever hang around and also so everyone
remembers that all these people that we're talking about they're all people
unfortunately sergeant Busty Everett had fallen ill and died at Born
we were from all over the country and beyond and on the whole one big happy family
it was daylight when we clambered into trucks and headed toward the arrow drone at Barxton Hall
everyone was tense but ready to go come what may he goes on here our objective was to capture
and hold the bridge straddling the rine at our nm my first parachute patty and was to seize the
high ground to the north our escorting typhoon spit fire and Mustang fighters were weaving
between the decodes and gliders as we cross the English channel tension began to mount in my
plane we approach land on the other side and could see the area that had been flooded to try and
stop her and peed the advance of our land forces i was admiring the landscape when the order
rang out action stations hook up green light on go being number 13 night a few long seconds to
wait as I shuffled forward then i felt a slight pat on my parachute back and again found myself
tumbling out of the doorway into that familiar open void my parachute opened once more obediently
and i drifted down to earth without difficulty after a good three point landing i was now an
enemy occupied territory except for the occasional machine gun fire and some blasting from enemy
machine gun placements the landing had been unopposed and the whole dropping north zone north of
he'slam was packed with gliders and discarded parachutes everyone soon collected themselves
and rendezvous to their perspective points the time was just after 1500 on Sunday the 17th of
September 1944 the time was just after 1500 on Sunday the 17th of September 1944
leaving the drops on we made a way quickly along the track running alongside the wood
west of wolfhees and south of the railway the end of the track lined up with a road running parallel
to the railway turning right here and then over the road onto the railway sidewalk we noticed our
way toward wolfhees station suddenly there was a loud explosion up ahead and some machine gun fire
and now this is when things start to get hot our company still upfront became engaged in a fierce
battle facing armored cars, mortars and machine guns it was getting dark now the whole
battalion laid doggo for a while to try to avoid further detection we lay up in the woods for
some hours pushing on occasionally buck cautiously at one point in time unbeknown to the enemy they
completely surrounded us in the semi dirt so here they are they're kind of like laid up they're not
trying to move too much in the semi dark we passed down winding lanes this is when they start
pushing forward through the woods and along the south side of the road we were now about five miles
from the arndam bridge and so far luck had been with us at about two o'clock in the morning there
were sounds a battle ahead apparently coming from an area north east north northeast of Lichtenbeek
on arriving there at about 0-500 we found that the leading companies had met fierce opposition
and it suffered heavily then with no reason given at the time the original plan to go for the
high ground north of arndam was changed and we instead turned south towards marion doll
an asterbeek some two miles from the bridge at 0-600 we entered asterbeek
where we met members of the Dutch underground movement who showed us the easiest route to the bridge
we were moving cautiously in a file ready for action and everything seemed a little bit too quiet
at 0-630 as dawn was breaking we moved up into a built up area and then it started
the enemy had been busy overnight preparing gun emplacements taking up positions at vantage
points posting snipers and concealing tanks and SP guns German gunfire shattered the piece and I
darted for cover and took up position in the neatly laid out garden of a nearby house
more firing came from the house direction with two other men I ran around the back of the house
and fired as two Germans in the shrubbery they must have had their chips with two other men
I round around the back of the house and fired at two Germans in the shrubbery they must have
had their chips amid the smoke and fire of machine guns SP guns and six barrel mortars the
battle ranged the battle raged and built to such a pitch that I became quite accustomed to it
and went about the task as if on street fighting training back in home we hadn't eaten since
leaving England but I was too busy to be hungry casualties were mounting mounting incredibly fast
and in every direction I could see motionless forms of our men cut down in their tracks
progress was slow and the battle became more intense as the bridge loomed gradually nearer
with two other chaps I did not know I chased after some Germans in a house
we threw a grenade in and dashed to the door to finish them off with stand and rifle
looking around for any more of the enemy we were built we built it to the rear of the house
I tripped over a broken fence and went sprawling as I scrambled up I heard a close wine and
recognized which I recognized was a mortar I die for cover by a low wall and the bomb landed very near
near enough to feel the draft snipers were taking pot shots at us dodging and weaving through
gardens and backyards I came to stop at an opposite of factory held up by held up by a heavy
mortar machine gun fire yet again I threw myself into the ground it was absolute bedlam
with the slicing sound of German southern solar their guns their bullets cutting their
in every direction and the repeated spark of mortars followed by the wine and sound of hot
shrapnel hitting the rooftops a small lump lump of shrapnel hit my helmet sounding like a pee on a drum
in a heat of battle men were shouting curses lobbying grenades through open doors and windows
and following up with shrieks of contempt for the enemy and a cry of woo hoo Muhammad
casualties really began mounting there were groans from men who had been hit motionless perilous
motionless perilous lay in the road and slumped over walls I saw a pair of feet protruding from a
garden gateway one boat one boot blown off but leaving the foot complete such as the magical
phenomenon of war the German fire power was murderous and all I could do was keep alert for the sound
of English I had a horrible feeling that my battalion was being cut to ribbons going forward a
little bit there was a heck of a battle going on inside the factory and men were scrapping
furiously with grenade stins called handguns and fighting knives the wall of the house opposite
received a blast of machine gun fire coming from behind me I was about to move off and pursuit of a
German in the garden of a terrorist house on the on my right when I felt an explosion just beneath me
and a sharp pain. Reeling over and looking down I saw that the lower part of my right leg was in a
most unusual position and blood was oozing out steady and fast I shouted for help and two
paras dashed up quickly and rendered first aid one of them sergeant knobby hall called for medical
orderly I was worried but felt like a nuisance as everyone was busy enough already without being
lumbered with me I was placed on a way I was placed on a stretcher and carried into a wooden
shed a few yards away where medics cut the boot off of the foot of my shattered leg smashed by an
explosive bullet it looked awful but strangely I didn't feel much pain they tore open the field dressing
I had carried for so long in different parts the world but never previously needed and carried out a
quick but thorough job pandemonium was raining outside as machine so at this point obviously he's been
wounded he's been wounded really bad his leg is in very rough shape he can't walk pandemonium was
raining outside as machine gun fire echoed around the built up area a mortar bomb landed quite near
but the medic administrating a more-feet injection kept a steady hand as if he were in the safety
of a hospital back in England so the talk about detaching the medic is just cool and calm
while the other medic hunted around for suitable makeshift splint a young Dutch girl appeared
from nowhere and offered me a welcome cup of water I was feeling cold and clammy and her help
was a great comfort as was the morphine which soon began to take effect there was another series of
explosions just ahead a clear signal to get moving and I was carried cautiously to the corner of
a house next to the road I'd come down only a short while ago everyone was scattered
everyone was scattered and there were dead paras in the road on the sidewalk and in the gardens
snipers were busy and our men were bent on winkling them out there was a thud a whiz and a bark
of an exploding shell followed by another and another all bursting on the rooftops of houses
thirty yards back then something flash from an upper window only twenty yards ahead and bullets
splattered on the wall above us the medic set me down to wait for an opportune met moment to get
across the road and I saw four paras press themselves into the wall of the building opposite
as they worked their way toward that flash went under the window the leading parac kick the
door out and out of the window came a potato masher which he immediately picked up and threw back
in the potato masher is the classic German grenade with a long handle on it which they did so
that they could throw grenades as far as as the Americans could because we play baseball and they
play soccer and you don't kick you don't kick grenades you have to throw them the leading parac
kick the door and out of the window came a potato masher which he immediately picked up and
threw back in a company by a mills bomb which is their grenade thrown by another man there was
quite some explosion following which four paras entered the building spring stand gun fire in the
room and threw up through the floorboards a trick we had learned in training I was more than
relieved to get out of the line of fire was carried into the relative safety of a garden wall
as I laid helpless behind the wall I had a clear view of the clatter and confusion in the battle
and the through the demolished gateway so he goes on here obviously I'm not covering the whole
book but covering some sections of things that are unfolding I was moved with a number of
other wounded men to a nearby barn where I spent a fairly easy night thanks to the powerful effects
of the morphine injection I'd been given early the following morning all was reasonably quiet
in the immediate vicinity although I could hear the sound of battle not far off looking around the
barn I didn't recognize anyone from my first paty and and those men I spoke to did not want to
know they were either too preoccupied with their wounds or unable to talk at all some of them
looked as though they had just lived through a nightmare which I would say is an accurate statement
and again it's like everything that he's talking about is just you know complete mayhem combat
that's what he's talking about it's just totally out of control and finally it settles down a
little bit for that night and it sounds like maybe the probably the brits at that point
it done a good counter attack maybe established a perimeter unfortunately doesn't last at about 0700
two medics came up to me and said that my turn was next this is as they're trying to extract them
lifting the stretcher they carried me to a waiting Jeep it's engine running there were
four walking wounded in the back seat and I was strapped to the front of the bonnet alongside
another chap who was already strapped in on the on beside the what windscreen he forced to grin
what's yours I asked they got me in the guts he said bluntly that's a nasty place to cop it I
thought feeling sorry for him a short stocky medic jumped in the driver seat saying hold tight
in the back and don't worry you two in front on the bonnet we might have a rough ride and it will be a bit
fast what do you even do I mean they take you they put you on a stretcher on the hood of a
freaking Jeep and they're like and the medic says hold on to the guys in the back and says hey
up front don't they've got them strapped down there's nothing they can do they can't move I wouldn't
want to do that on a Tuesday afternoon you know going to like to the market I mean imagine
I'm like hey I'm taking the market I put you on the hood of my car strap you down and say hey it's
going to be a little rough. After a fast fast forward after a fast bumpy journey the Jeep
tore through Usterbeek passed the net the original headquarters at the heart and steam hotel
and pulled up sharply in the drive of the taffled berigo tell a few hundred yards farther on
airborne medics quickly unstrap me and took me inside setting me down on the floor opposite a window
in the entrance hall the hotel taffled berigo had been German field marshal walther model
modells headquarters prior to our arrival the previous Sunday and we were now using it as an improvised
military hospital it must have taken a few knocks as it was now in absolute shambles as usual
the British Tommy had managed to brew up even in such hazardous conditions and I was given a mug of
tea and a bar of chocolate my first foods in sleeping in England two days earlier I had not touched
my ghastly iron ration I tried to sleep but with the interruption of shelling and mortar fire
prevented that when night fell I just long for daylight to come again I hated the nights it was bad
enough to be meeting angry Germans in battle but it was worse to do so while I slept the next day
Wednesday I was grateful to be taken into the operating room ingeniously rigged up in the kitchen
of the hotel so he gets some he gets some preliminary worked on on his wounds and of course the
brits I know I've talked about this they like to brew up their tea and they will do it that's how they
roll I was returned to the entrance hall where the den of battle embolitating the wall outside
maybe look out I was surprised to be is to see a German wandering about so pictures is you're in a
hospital you just got like the shrapnel cut out your leg they sit taken set you down and now you're
watching the battle out of window and you see a German wandering around he took up a stand position
by the door and then began pacing up and down just then there was a loud crump outside and debris
plaster and glass fell all around I looked to see where that one landed and the German I had seen
outside only a few moments ago was now sprawled out killed I presumed by one of his own mortar bombs
but that should tell you with a situation there there's Germans outside the window walking around
I was set down at the head of the stairs to my right leg glider pilot who had a face and arm injury
amid all the wounded who covered most of the landing area came a wounded man walking our eyes met
did I know him I hardly knew anyone they were unrecognizable clotted up with blood and dirt
then up the stairs belted some combat paras and we asked them how it was going I had to
had to capture this because this is just as british as it gets so these there's like we just said
there's Germans walking around outside this places total shambles and they see a couple paras and he
says hey how's it going and one of the paras answers not too bad not too bad could be a bit better
before disappearing back down again that's like that's a no factor response yeah oh by the way
we're about to get overrun but not too bad not too good be better but you know we got this
fast forward a little bit a wounded man with his arm and a sling approached me with an inquiring look
what unit chum he asked almost in a whisper first pair I replied I'm in a shower of dust and smoke
as yet another shell exploded very near he went and withdrew from the direction of the shell blast
just as we felt the ominous vacuum of warm air he was almost incoherent as he glanced around the
terrible scene of man-made destruction I just left the bridge he said there was quite a pause what's
it like there I asked he swung around glaring at me as if the whole war was my fault his eyes
hard staring and red with fatigue the poor fellow had been hit through with something bad
I offered him a cigarette and with a trembling hand he took one it hung limping his grasp
thanks I don't really smoke but I'll have when he said then he answered it was bloody hell there
tanks belching fire blocks getting killed left and right the carnage was terrible
he paused as a medic passed by with a man clutching his side and hoveling on one leg a bloody
congealed bandage wrapped around the stump where once had been a foot my lad drew hard on the
cigarette and coughing continued there were hordes of them they went on for hours attacking
shelling then the bastard started burning us out my two mates got killed the twisted and broken
bodies of our men were strewn everywhere he leaned back against the wall looking a little
mortise I don't know but I think it may have been the first I may have been the first person he had
spelt out his experiences too they're he told me that it was his first time in action
I thought he had ridden it bloody well the next few days seemed to drag on forever with my leg
giving me much more pain now than it had during the first 24 hours after I was hit
and so obviously these guys are rallied up and they're suffering but it doesn't mean that
they're safe continuing on there are so many shells landing in on and around the building
plus the occasional burst of machine gun fire spattering the inner walls that I imagine we
must be slapped bang in in the front line or somewhere in no man's land by the way that's the
field hospital there were hundreds of wounded in enemy included as well as Dutch people caught up in the
fight so many that some got moved to the hotels and acts across the driveway and any man with
flesh wounds or injuries that did not hinder the use of a firearm was ordered outside to fight
so if you could fight now it's time it was now the 23rd of September and I was lying still
at the head of the broad stairway and there was commotion down below those ruddy hunds again
said the glider pilot there was a shuffling in German orders were being wrapped the out
then some SS troops dashed up the stairs a sinister looking type about 20 years old led the way
and was coming right out of it coming right at me I found myself looking straight down the barrel of his
schmizer his trigger finger shaking I didn't bat an eyelid I just did not want to have set
him and give him a cause to let rip he was glaring at me with red BDI's Christ this is it I thought
I had heard of other wounded being shot up but my luck was in any past me by he and two other
SS men had a good look around and took a and then took up firing positions at windows in rooms leading
off the landing as they started to fire out Colonel Warwick dast up the stairs swearing and
rebuking them for firing from a clearly marked red cross building discipline took over they look
to find and so on but with fingers handling their automatic's hesitantly they reluctantly obey
the officers command and stop firing so as I talked about early with the
and clearly these are some Germans that have respect for the law of armed conflict
and they there which let's just start with this we're in the hospital building and now we got
the the Germans in the building using it as a firing position I don't even know what to say about this
like what what is that even how do you even translate that into into reality your wounded your
your hospital is getting mortar to machine gun and then there's German enemy soldiers in your
building firing from inside your building walking around looking at you oh and he comments about this
it was most strange to have enemy in the building one minute only be replaced by your own combat
men the next so that's his statement about it is that yeah strange I wondered how the rest of
my first parabatian were doing right from the Sunday night our our company had a tough time
losing half of its men in the D lyridudal area then 40 men of six platoon as company were killed
in two minutes on the approach to Archnem Arnhem and in the denbrink St. Elizabeth's hospital
and factory area the rest of the battalion was badly mauled in the midst of it all father
Benson a Roman Catholic priest was busy making his rounds and answering urgent calls
one man so constantly needed things began to get on my nerves that morning
which is kind of interesting because he's been through all this stuff he's wounded
he's surrounded by the enemy he's on his whatever however many hundreds of days in close combat
that he's been in over the past few years and now that he's wounded and surrounded and there's
men screaming and dying all around them things are getting on his nerves a little bit this morning
makes sense that's that's what that's what rages up to so things began to get on my nerves that
morning what with the continuous den of battle outside in my leg getting more painful through lack of
proper medical attention I called for father Benson to offer a few words of comfort so he came and put
me at my ease later he was too as wounded by tank fire into the building I'm sorry to say that he
died from those wounds and was buried in the grounds of St. Elizabeth's hospital on the following day
the disposition was frightening once again under statement the British under statement because
as far as I'm concerned everything up to this point is completely horrifying on the following day
the disposition was frightening our men were still doing their damnness but the Germans were slowly
closing in very slowly mark you for they lost heavily and had to fight for every inch of the
bloody ground they got there with things getting hotter still I was moved again to what was thought to be
a safer spot just to the other side and along the landing area suddenly there was an all mighty
explosion in the room on my right men were already wounded once twice were hit again in somewhere killed
there were pittiest cries coming from that room it was at this time that major John Wadi
of the 156 parachute battalion who had started his parachute days in India when the battalion was
first formed was wounded again and two English medics and a Dutch nurse were killed a medic now
came out cradling a form in his arms the chapy carried could have been dead or unconscious
he was covered in blood and his arm was shattered and hung prophetically by his side his left leg
bandaged from his first wounding Christ I wish I were outside there was another resounding crash
of bombs followed by curses perhaps I was better off in here it was bloody awful for everyone
everywhere outside the situation was getting completely out of hand further enemy reinforcements
were mustering around the perimeter in the form of powerfully armed tanks from the SS Panzer
divisions with long barreled high explosives and armor piercing shells
the passage where I lay ran from front to rear the hotel and I was facing the rear with a
grandstand view of the battle through a gaping hole in the wall where once there had been a window
now and again one of our men would break cover to stock the enemy and the enemy would repeat
the process with the multiple accompaniment of shell burst tank fire machine gun fire curses and
yelps of pain I heard the ominous sound of an approaching tank I couldn't see it but the
squeaking of its caterpillar wheels grew even louder then it came into view it's great gun
traversing from right to left picking its way through the trees it stopped for a few minutes to
feel its way and then the gun barked out sending a shell across my front to an unseen target
the other wounded were lying huddled together trying to afford each other protection
the floor was littered with debris blood and glass and there was an incest and wind and explosion
of mortar bombs together with the shrieking crash of artillery vibrating the very foundations of the
building which I thought when it's some point tumbled down I don't know what time it was when the
shelling and gun fire stopped but after a den of the last six days it felt very strange to suddenly
be so much quieter there were still spasmotic firing in the distance and a little shelling
but nothing to worry about we began to converse more freely gone on strike Jerry one man almost
shouted except that his head half his mouth bandaged from a shell splinter wound nah he's packed
up as Jerry and buggered off a cockney put in the glider pilot was more cautious crafty saw
is the hunt he's got something up his sleeve then I saw men being carried downstairs with great
activity going on outside but not of battle two medics picked me up both of them silent and not
looking to please where to now I asked the Elizabeth hospital one told me the enemy had overrun us
and was calling the shots so the Germans were now in control he gets taken out south outside
was a ghastly site with the fallen dead of both our sides lying where they had gone down
British and German medical orderlies were putting the wounded into jeeps and various other vehicles
including two small vans improvised as makeshift ambulances three of us stretcher cases were
loaded into a small open German lorry with shallow sides which would prevent us from bouncing off
and transit there was just enough room for five walking wounded now they're on this drive we all
had shattered bones of some sort which made us cry out and pain during the rough ride in this
antico anticoated lorry and I was still more than pleased when it finally came to a stand still
at journeys end at the hospital there had clearly been heavy fighting and as spent cartridges could
see be seen littering the floor and entranceway I heard that familiar voice of a friend what the
hell are you doing on that stretcher scrounging for a lift I went to answer but nothing came out
can you imagine you go to the hospital and the floor has got bullets chasing all over it
word got around that the whole show was over and I began to wonder what really went wrong
the battle had been lost but it had been some fight as mortar sergeant Dick winning him later
Riley remarked we may have lost the battle at our nm but we did come in second it should be noted
that there had not only been a great loss of life in this battle but also massive local
destruction with one or one in four houses totally destroyed in most of the remainder badly damaged
and so again you know I talked about the scene the different sides of the Germans and you know
we already saw some of the Germans the prisoners being second by what the kind of civilian
casualties were taking places they evacuated done Kirk the the Germans that were firing inside
the hospital and then when they get told by an unarmed you know leader hey get out of here there's
okay fine they're grumpy but they leave just the fact that these the patients are the wounded are
getting treated actually pretty well so they end up in this sort of makeshift hospital
South African orthopedic surgeon captain Alexander Lippman castle was going to see me
he commanded one of the surgical teams of the 16 pair of field ambulance I was thankful that I was
not going to have a German butcher I had seen the end result of a German doctor's amputation of a
man's foot crudely almost guillotine and without anesthetic I was carried into a large room with
medical apparatus everywhere trowlies and tables laden with all sorts of instruments bandages field
dressing in splints I was placed on a hard narrow table about four feet from the ground in the distance
I could hear the sound of gunfire and German flock which meant that our aircraft were in the vicinity
the anesthesiists put up had his needle at the ready and medics were preparing for the operation
when there was a noise rather like a giant balloon having air released and then a terrific explosion
with a very quick presence of mind one medic threw a blanket over me and shielded me from the
blast with his own body as shattered glass fell in small pieces and slivers all over the operating theater
then all went quiet again and the blanket was pulled carefully to reveal yours truly with popping
eyes my treatment had to wait another day while the place was cleaned up
fortunately for me the next visit was uninterrupted the wound was cleaned and redressed
and I had my first plaster cast put on and so like I said it seems like at this point it's
it's relatively civilized I mean if you can forgive a bomb exploding while you're about to get surgery
but relatively civilized compared to what they'd been through at one point there's an SS officer
comes in and they kind of go through the different individuals there and they finally get to him
and when he tells him he's an airborne guy they say you're going to prison a work app
and he says here was September 28th there was a 28th of September when German orderly
he's carried me out of the hospital not so carefully as our own medics and I had to hang on
to the sides of the stretchers we descended the stone steps at the entrance to avoid sliding off
and now he gets transported again this time he ends up at the Villem 3 concern barracks
we were given iron beds with straw filled pillows and the floors were dirty there was no
heating and only a meager supply of medical necessities and then at one point a doctor or or
I presume he was entered the room accompanied by a rotten fear of the SS medical corps the stench
from my wound caused disapproval on the face of the doctor and grabbing my big toe with his finger
he slowly raised the leg which began to bend at the wound beneath the knee were both the
Tibia and Fibia were broken stopping he peered at the wound inquisitively
D-Mind that hurts I told him where upon he simply released the hold of my leg and let it fall in the
hard table instantly turning to go looking at me in the eyes with his statistic expression as he did so
you bastard square headed shite hawk I said I couldn't care less if he didn't understand the phrase
he just raised an eyebrow with an inquiring looking departed while I returned to my private world of pain
then the medics came back with that infernal SS guard and redress and repostured my leg
so like I said there's I mean it's not great treatment but I mean let's face it he's alive
and he goes on here I was at the barracks for a little more than a week
when one morning I was prepared for yet another move this time a short journey to the juliana hospital in
apple doom apple dorn my stay at juliana hospital is going to be the longest and best as far as
medical care goes go the hospital staff with Dutch doctors and nurses helped by our own doctors
and orderlies and the Germans left us well alone to fend for our own medical requirements
like I said that seems fairly civilized to me and they're trying to help him out and here we go
it was decided to apply a gadget called a Kirchner wire extension to my leg as both bones were broken
below the knee the theory was to stretch the leg and try to marry the bones in the correct position
under an injection of evapand a steel bar was shot through my ankle bone to act as an anchor
a steel cable was then attached to the anchor and to a pulley apparatus below the foot of the bed
weights were added each day to steadily stretch the leg otherwise I was told I would be left with a
two inch shortening necessitating the use of a club boot at a later date which I didn't much
care for but my general condition my general and local condition had regressed considerably
and I was at my lowest ab I was now wishing that I could see the end of this confounded uses
lump of decaying flesh and bone on the 19th of November I got my reluctant wish and my leg was
amputated by major Peter Smith of the 133rd parachute field ambulance as I later learned it was
not a moment too soon prior to the operation I had been regarded as a hopeless case one of those
certain of not lasting after surgery however I made such an amazingly quick recovery that I was
back to life and sitting out of bed only a week later the medical orderlies could not do enough for us
from baste of fetching bed pants carrying patients from the bed to the loo and back again soothing
and dying soothing the dying or reading a book for those two weeks are exhausted to do so for
themselves they were always on call all hours of the day and night I wondered when they managed
to eat or sleep I asked one who was passing with a bottle in his hand he answered quite cheerfully
oh we get forty winks now and then with snack in between so there you go I mean almost one sentence
no two sentences he was wishing that he could get this decaying hunk of flesh off of his body
and the next time the next sentence is got reacted that's that's that's how much
that's that's that's that's that's been as matter of fact as you can get I guess is what I'm going with this
this is a one last little section of this a Polish parah who had dropped at Arknem
was opposite me in the corner of the world he'd been caught up badly and was having a rough time
a German military clergyman kept calling to say prayers and finally came to administer the last
rights as he stood there in his dark olive green uniform black jack boots and belt
peaked cap under his arm I scrutinized his close cropped bull neck and square jaw I could not
help a notice and thought how strange that he wore a gunholster a man of the cloth with a pistol
in a hospital what next so he talks about you know the care that he gets he starts getting moved
around a lot the Germans kept shipping us out as soon as they thought we were fit enough to travel
and once again I found myself in a truck this time heading to the rail station at Apple Dorn
where we pulled up alongside of and boarded red cross train and of course this stuff just never
gets easy daylight came with a German doing is nut and shouting spit fire actone spit fire actone
I watched a lone spit fire turn and fly parallel to the train at about a hundred feet with the same
distance from the train it was quite cheeky I thought the pilot was having a real close look to
make sure it was a hospital train I could see clearly as goggles were off in white scarf
and felt like giving him a wave as he disappeared behind some pine trees we were now in Germany with
snow-covered mountains and forests of fur log cabins dotted here and there making it also pitch
a risk as nightfall came we halted at a dismal looking place a small town I think unfortunately
the luxury was now over and we were ushered off the train in a collection on a collection of
crutches of varying lengths that were produced and given to the leg amputees so they get end up in this
like just junk place we were all a bit under the weather with the added unpleasantness of an
amputation one lathe and arm and a hand missing another two arms off and most like myself had lost
the leg one poor fellow was the worst for blisters on his one and only foot we had a wounded medic
who was with us and did all he could to help with medical minimal medical supplies we had only paper
bandages it was not the best of nights on the cold stone floor but I somehow slept others were
not so first fortunate and one chap did not even live to see the rest of the journey remaining
motionless the next morning as we were roused by the guards so this transport continues gets on a
train finally ends up at another place the snow is quite thick we pulled in what looked like a
school in a small town near Munster three of the yanks of myself were told to get out and then
a lorry carried on its way leaving a standing in the crisp snow a voice called welcome buddy come in
he's a big American from Indiana called Marvin Adams inside he showed us to a room on the left
grab yourself a pillow and bed down here I'll do yours bud he said looking me up and down
how'd your manage that fella put the best foot forward at the wrong time I answered
oh well the St. the Ritz but will have fun he said I wonder what he meant by that
always good to be that person with a good attitude we even when you're an adam prisoner of war camp
going on here the Germans guards were not existing except at night
as we were all severely wounded there was thick snow outside they were obviously not worried about
a massive scape food was sparse but regular and then again more moving I was just getting used to this
place when word went round that Jerry was moving us some of us maybe for repatriation
having only one pin meaning leg I thought I stood a good chance to be in on this then early one
morning three yanks two Russians in myself were ushered to a truck and taken on a passenger train
in which we travel the few miles only to detrain again perhaps to get another connection
for as our yet for our as yet to be undisclosed location destination
and then they get off that train they get on another train they get on this other train
after shunting around a bit and hitching up to another train we rolled off again it was dusk
cold and pretty dimo all told then someone struck up our version of the song bless him all
and their version of the song was salt them all salt them all belong in the short and the tall
salt all the sergeants and the W.O. ones salt all the corpus and their bastard sons
for we're saying goodbye to them all as back to their billets they crawl you'll get no promotion
aside of the ocean so cheer up me lads saw them all and he says it seemed we had joined a group of
British soldiers by this was by way of an introduction they finally make it to bremen
we pulled in slowly and as the train came to a stop there were sounds of doors opening in the
hustle and bustle of people getting off and making their way along the platform and then it happened
an air raid warning wind out civilian military personnel immediately began scurrying about in the
military I noticed did not hesitate to shove anyone else out of their way a little shot at the
German military the civilians are getting pushed out of the way so they can get to cover
the air was humming with aircraft american Boeing b-17 flying fortresses and our guards
quick in their step way ahead of us periodically turning to beckon us to hurry it up
we entered the shelter being enough for about a hundred people and after a lot of pushing and
shoving settled among amid the gliers and remarks thrown our way I was happy to let it happen
but somehow I'd been pushed and guided into a corner of the shelter away from the door if a bomb
lands two near the the Germans take it blast take the blast and cushion any effect on us I thought
there was a wooden batch fixed to the wall I dropped to it exhausted three guards it spread out between us
and other occupants and when the bombing started in earnest the shelter shook I was sure
wanted landed close outside because I felt it's draft reminding me of being blown off my feet
in North Africa only that time it was just 50 feet away everyone fell silent as the drone of
aircraft and wind and crash a bombs went on with ever increasing ferocity for a good hour before
dying down to a steady drumming and an occasional distant explosion I must admit I always think of
these bombing runs as taking like maybe 10 minutes but we're talking about a good hour
people began to chatter this is once everything's kind of faded people began to chatter
as interfered dispersed and external barvato took over I could hear the gnashing of teeth
glances accompanying finger pointing in our direction the crowd is getting rest if in a big
man started pouring forth with words of abuse a big frow about 40 years old worked her way near
to us until she was only a couple feet away I felt the murt moisture of her spiddlesty argued with
the guards about the privilege we had being allowed to be in the same shelter as the German people
I gathered that was a crux of the matter that was the crux of the matter at this point a heavy
booted foot came out and started propelling my way I parried firmly with my right hand and the boot
just brushed my balls coming to a harmless glancing blow on my left thigh the guards stood firm
restraining the woman and trying to calm everyone down it was only then that I noticed
a familiar sound in French our guards were Frenchmen constricted in the German army
anyway they saved my nuts from being cracked there must have been another hours wait at the
station another back going to transfer again there must have been another hours waited the station until
I an old army type lorry with solid tires turned up or sorry they were waiting for truck
I couldn't care less at this stage provided I didn't have to hobble on crutches before long
I saw the large POW camp ahead with its eight foot high wire fences and guards platform
sticking up like store thumbs all around there was a collection of dingy looking huts dotting the interior
the lorry slowed at the gate and the senior guard jumped down through the hand to go through the
handing over ceremony then the big wood and wire gates creed open and the lorry jerked into the
compound where out we tumbled I was exhausted and sweating as if I just come out of a Turkish bath
my stump was throbbing I stayed lying on the ground where I landed managing to support myself on
one elbow while the rest of the party sat knelt or remained standing with the aid of their crutches
I didn't want a welcoming committee but wished that someone would show us where to go
one of the guards was busy having a chat and laughed with his mate eventually he gave us the go ahead
and the party moved off slowly and weirdly I found myself left behind I tried to get up but I could
not muster enough strength to make it so I started crawling dragging the crutches
I'd only manage five or six yards when I heard voices and saw two pairs of gated boots come
come on me old mate a voice said we'll give you a lift on which they lifted me with ease and
carried me I don't know how far I didn't even get a glimpse of their faces to say thanks
sinking down onto a straw mattress I just slept and slept for the next two days when I woke
I found that I was in Stolog X1B in Saxony along with a large number of other airborne men
it was not long before I contracted more complaints to add to my already sorry condition
Lysen bugs were in abundance in my hut the nights were the worst the iron stove was stoked right
up at night and the heat was awful with all the doors and windows shut tight urine buckets
would fill to the brim and no time making the stench nauseous I went down with dysentery
plurzy and scarlet fever which together with my amputation meant that I did not feel all that good
red is hard as nails if I had wanted to die I would have but fortunately that didn't enter my head
little key note as I read that I thought hmm let's think about that
if you want to die if you want to give up you there's the time but luckily fortunately for him
that thought did not enter his head after a short time promising news
again I'm jumping ahead like this is what we're talking every little thing that he just talked
about is a nightmare and he's got him all at the same time it's been a while since we talked about
lice on the podcast yeah we've been missing out on that one we think lice is no big deal
because your kid gets it and then you get some special little medicine from the store and then you put
it in their hair or you shave their head and and either way prom solved these guys are got it
and there's no way to get rid of it this is by the way wall that got dysentery and plurzy
and scarlet fever and an amputation however fast forward a little bit after a short time promising
news I was told that I was going to be repatriated I boarded yet another train no sooner than we
set off that there was a terrific woosh in the train stopped in the middle nowhere I could hear the
gutteral tang twang of German civilians as they ran hell for leather on each side of the train
to take cover from what must have been our own aircraft overhead one of the guards just
the moose and left it to us looking down to the track I saw that it was much too high for me to jump
with only one leg the some of our party of eight jumped and took cover I found my pants and don't
know whether it was fright or the dysentery that was still with me the planes returned they were
to rocket firing RAF typhoons which specialized in ground attack I recognized the sound as they
got nearer there was another woosh and then another followed by an ear splitting explosion
the carriage shook so violently that I thought we were going to topple over as always in such a
task it was over in no time with such a tax it was over in no time and all of a suddenly peaceful again
so they have to go and repair this train and then finally we had reached a snug little village
called Myzberg on the German side of the border with Belgium and once again we see some nicer
treatment our first job was to be cleaned up and we were taken in pairs into the shower I was
asked to remove all personal items from my pockets and all clothing was to be cleaned and few
amigated don't worry you'll get everything back and English medic told me here put this on it was
a sort of cotton smock which tied in the back was just long enough to cover to the knee first in
came a great big American with the same garb with forms like tree branches he lifted me bodily with
the ease of samps and himself mind you I was down from 14 stone to just over eight since last
September and to translate that into American English he weighed 196 pounds in September and now
he weighs 112 on reaching the shower is made ask can you stand on one leg bud sure I said
samps and it taken his smock off and proceeded to bathe me while herkilly steadyed me I was carried
back to a most luxurious bed with white sheets God knows where the when they scrounge the sheets
but trust the yanks there were approximately 40 wounded there a mixture of English French and
American with four American and two English orderlies one of the walking wounded act that is a
cook all the others doing menial tasks they did not mind though so he's in this pretty
car can I even say let's say let's just say and improved situation and improved situation is what is
he and that goes on a little bit or even he calls it the luxury things began to live in
up outside the rumbling in the distance grunier and groups of bejragled weary looking Germans
plotted through the village the wounded born by horse and cart field guns were manhandled
the luxury of any motorized transport being afforded to senior officers only who clearly
wished to withdraw in his dignified manner as possible leaving hunter officers to do all the
donkey work along with the shoots and and suffer all the humiliation of being seen by their own
countrymen it was a pathetic sight like a cutting from the first world war film archives as the
dawn approached the throb of motorized transport and tanks was very near so he's seeing the Germans
kind of walking back he's seeing the officers in the vehicles the German officers in the vehicles
and the German troops walking or being carried if they were wounded and years tank activity right
which is kind of an indication where you have tank activity but you see people withdrawing with horses
and garages that's an indication that perhaps the tanks that we're hearing are good friendly
as dawn approached the throb of motorized transport and the tanks was very near
you could hear the squeak of the tanks wheels rubbing against the caterpillar track
thirsty for lubrication edging and shunting into position for the impending advance in the village
that noise that a tank makes in the city is just wind well who is the awesome
and and it's also horrifying like these guys when they're hearing the German tanks outside when they're
in that that battle whether about to be overrun the horror can't even imagine of tanks coming
and now the joy which I got to experience some of the joy in the body of hey the tanks are coming
it's glorious and god bless the tankers and here these guys feel in the same way the American
orderlies were jubilant they're here lie me the yanks are here exploded Hank anyone who get up walk hop
or propel themselves in some way momentarily forgot their wounds in discomfort they peered
through the cracks and the doors through the windows I could not see anything from my window
only the Nazi flag of the local garrison hanging listless like the enemy itself
bill one of the english medics came gashing and not knowing which way to turn in his excitement
there's hundreds of them there's hundreds of tanks out there bloody well hundreds of them
Sherman tanks of general patterns armored division had encircled the village in the early hours
of that morning and were in a very advantageous position as we were in the valley and they were on the
high ground every gun would have its own selected target with orders to open fire if fired upon
thankfully the tanks played a waiting game with the non-existent enemy because the because unknown
to the Americans the birds had flown an American scout car ventured cautiously toward
the village on molested it reached the outskirts scanning the bridge buildings where white flags were
protruding no sign of the enemy still in view of the tanks on the hill it became bolder and
crews gently into the village our makeshift hospital with a painted red cross on the roof
must have been in view of the scout car now all these goings on were being shouted by one of the
medics in the passageway for the benefit of all those like me who could not see for themselves so he's
getting a play by play the scout car came to a stop it's occupants clutching their automatic
at the ready they must have spotted someone step carefully into view that person was a medic
with a red cross arm band Hank the orderly from Ohio he was about a hundred yards from the
scout car and they stealthily approached each other Hank not wishing to be mistaken for a German
ruse though in the scout car not wishing to fall for any trick as they drew closer the realization
dawned that they were brothers a wireless call was immediately sent to the tanks on the skyline
and in minutes the village was alive to their rumble as they thundered on through leaving an
accurate smell of oil and exhaust fumes I was almost home
and you know I got to that point in the book and I was like well that's that's where you stop
and it's definitely a good place to stop but let's take that as a stop
that incredible glory of seeing the Americans seeing patents armored division rolling
and knowing that he was almost home
but there are some things to think about and he covers them in the epilogue here he says the
casualties in the arnum area alone were eight thousand airborne killed the wounded captured
or missing including poles plus more than four hundred RAF pilots in crew
there were 750 Dutch civilians and underground fighters killed at least two thousand five hundred
Germans and in the following winter of 1944 to 1945 some 200 thousand Dutch died of starvation
so it's so it's important to understand that these you see you see this through one man's eyes
but that thousands in fact hundreds of thousands were affected by this particular battle
and again that might be a good place to stop but there's another note here he talks about
several years later I visited the place of thinking if you will of that great man and founder of
the parachute regimen Winston Churchill the war rooms situated far below ground at the
treasury chambers in Westminster the existence of these a war in room war in of rooms was a well kept
secret during the warriors the tour was fascinating everything remained exactly as it had been back
then I sat in Churchill's chair in front of me on the desk printed on a black card
printed in black on a card the words of Queen Victoria in this house we never speak of defeat
in this house we never speak of defeat and he goes on in the toilet there was a red telephone
a direct line to President Roosevelt in Washington in the visiting ministers room I opened a
book entitled World War II on the Sicily landings and saw a training shot of members of my 11th
S.A.S. Battalion to the four in the lineup were Harry Bance Corporal Hudson Jimmy Metcalf
and myself
down here beneath Westminster I surrounded I am sure by a dedicated team Churchill did his job
extremely well I would like to think that I did my best alongside other leopards,
lions and tigers of the first parachute brigade and again I really didn't get into the fact that
at some at one point there there are call signs their code names had been the leopards lines and
tigers that's what their the different battalions were called could be a good place to stop on
a goal a little bit further this is actually in the preface of this book and he says when the war ended because
this is he survived he was home when the war ended I found it a little difficult initially
knuckling down to civilian life the letter from the government saying you are now a civilian
seemed so sudden I couldn't face the prospect of an office job so I tried manufacturing making
handbags before joining my brother-in-law John in his landscape gardening business and then
branch branching out on my own in the same line of work having an artificial leg didn't help
but I didn't let it hinder me then the limb fitting center at gilling him kindly reinforced
my artificial knee for kneeling several times I got a BSA motorbike and side car and had the gear
is modified to operate by hand instead of foot I built my own house you do the best you can
again again I mean hey found a little rough to guess what I'm gonna go I'm gonna go to work
I'm gonna start a business I'm gonna build a house I'm gonna drive a motorbike around the
country with a side car you do the best you can and I also wanted to say that he wasn't alone
he obviously need that side car for someone and I'm quite sure that that was one of the
dedications of the book is for Betty Francis Regis wife who who as he puts it helped me so much
and the last thing I'll say the last thing I'll read from this book I should say is the
dedication and he says I dedicate this book to all my airborne friends who never came back
whose actions made it possible for me and other airborne friends to enjoy over
70 years of living and that is well that's the parts I'm gonna read from this book but
um red shirt is died on January 29th 2016 94 years old
he was the last surviving member of the original first parachute battalion the last of
those initial 500 men that took that step forward and volunteered for parachute and command
no training in 1940 in the book the book which is called the memory indoors the book it's actually
not available on Amazon it's not available in book stores I actually got it I got it from somebody that
sent it to me and with no inscription in it it says he sent me a note it says dear jacco
keep up the great work best wishes I believe it says Rick or Rich so that's where I got the book
from luckily it was sent to me I wouldn't have known about it otherwise if you want to get this book
which you should it's available from pilots publishing dot co dot uk and there's also a Facebook page
the memory facebook dot com slash the memory indoors and as it says in the book
the authors royalties in respect of this book will be donated to the parachute regiment charity
and there you go another hero teaching us the sacred lesson that we must never forget that
life is a gift and as rich Curtis tells us what you do with that is you do the best you care
you do the best to that you care and with that echo echo Charles as I decompressed over here
a little bit maybe got some ideas of how how we can be the best we can use what do you got for us
I one of the many things that I took was I don't know if it was his attitude or if that's the
culture or both you know could be a bit better and then that was the other guy right who was like
could be a bit better do we do better yeah so on these terrible conditions right could be a bit
oh oh you talk about the guy that says not too bad not too bad could be better could be better
so you know like I said probably probably both right attitude plus culture so the attitude right
one things when you go through adversity you can have that attitude not too bad not too bad could
be better hey we're about to get overrun and there's a strong possibility we're going to get
killed right not too bad not too bad could be better yeah could be better positive thought pattern
there yeah it's kind of like well it's really a good news bad news yeah it's also a realistic view
right yeah hey I'm still walking hey I still got ammunition yeah and by the way it's not not too bad
means we don't have to do anything could be better though maybe there's some things we can work on
yes yeah well I forget what movie it was when he's like I got good news and bad I think
I'd been tango and cash I don't know maybe maybe not but anyway he said how are good news and bad news
it was what's the bad news we're almost almost out of gas and he's like well what's the good
news we're almost dead again so sad it's too good man so just you know speaking of attitudes good
and bad what we're doing one of the many things is jujitsu okay so that's a really good news bad
news scenario as well really what's the bad news bad news is you're gonna get choked
from time to time I know this firsthand that's that's the bad news but the good news is you are
exposed to an environment that will teach you how to choke others if the need may arise
good yes so good news is you're getting choked are sorry bad news is you're getting choked
yes good news is you're getting choked which means you're learning how to defend also choke
of the people yes so if we're competitively well that could be good or bad news whatever
so it's a matter of your attitude really how is your attitude like the on getting
choked you know a lot of learning you know not a little learning what do you call it when you
relearn something you know lessons lesson repetitive repetitive learning sessions hey it's not any
not a new population you know it's repetitive well it is it's both I imagine that you get choked one
time you'll never get choked again no no that's not the one that happens with the jujitsu so we are it
sounds like jujitsu even though there's a negative possible thing right but it's not too bad not too bad
it could be better if you try it yes start training the more you train the better you get so there you go
anyway well we're training we're going to need a geek cause you're going to do geek what do you
do not do geek well I guess that's possible but okay I'm not recommended no no I recommend
are you going to fight people all the time that are just wearing shorts no no what if you get
in a street fight okay if you get a street fight at the beach maybe what if you get a street fight
at the supermarket yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you were taking the last you
know and really that's like that's the last one you were broccoli yeah you don't like that you
gotta fight them for something like this but that's even just one of the actually teeny tiny way
of looking at it where it's like okay oh I see you're saying because the chance of you getting
in actual fight are pretty low.
If you're still trying to get a point,
not to say that you should, not, you know,
I'm not saying that, but they're pretty low.
This is what I'm saying.
And especially if you're gonna avoid
getting a new fight, if you're smart,
you're smart, yes.
The problem is you can't always avoid it.
You can maybe a situation and here's the deal.
If you are forced into a situation
that where you have to defend yourself
and you don't know how the result is catastrophic.
You have to be catastrophic.
Why have that catastrophic possibility?
Here's the deal.
If that's the only reason you were training GJ2,
if that was the only reason, it would be worth it.
If that was the only reason, here's the deal.
That's not the only reason.
There's a thousand other reasons.
There's an infinite more reasons, right?
You're gonna get better conditioning.
You're gonna get mental stimulus.
You're gonna meet other human beings.
You're gonna develop relationships and have friends.
You're going to think you're gonna develop discipline
in your life, right?
This is a long list.
I mean, this goes on.
So even if the only thing you were gonna get
was just you learn how to defend yourself.
Totally worth it.
Now not only are you gonna get it to defend yourself,
you can be able to get these other collateral bonus things.
Which by the way, some people in order to work
their cardiovascular system,
their ride in a spin bike somewhere.
Someone else in order to work their flexibility
is doing a yoga class.
Someone else in order to work their strength
is lifting some weights.
I'm not saying, I'm not saying to go do all those things.
But I'm saying you can get all three of them
like a little hitter of all three of them.
No problem.
Get on the GJ2 bats.
Yeah.
Guy, nogie.
Both of them.
Yes.
Well, yes.
But if you're doing Guy only because someone
on the street might be wearing certain types of clothes.
Same exact point I just made.
Yeah.
If you're only going to do Guy because of that,
it's worth it.
But there's all these other beneficial things.
Yes.
And I'll tell you this right now.
Really the number one thing that'll keep you in GJ2
doing it, the number one thing.
And it's maybe even by far for most people
is that it's fun.
I was gonna say fun.
It's great.
I hope we're aligned with this.
To you.
It's true because look, think about it.
Oh yeah.
I'm gonna do GJ2 for self defense.
That's the answer.
When I started GJ2, me, when I started I was like,
I'm just gonna do good enough.
You know, so I can handle myself.
Which is like I said about six months period.
About six months, if you're an aggressive guy
and you're a good athlete or strong or whatever,
six months you're pretty good to go.
Right?
Six months of GJ2, you know what's up.
It's been 20, whatever years.
You know?
Yeah, exactly.
Right.
So, oh yeah, don't, I mean, and if you tap someone out,
try the first time, the first time you tap someone out.
Then say like, oh yeah, that's the first time.
Yeah, that's, I made that up, by the way.
You're trying to impinge on my statement.
Well, you might have made up saying that maybe bringing it
to light, but the fact is true.
So you're saying that I only quoted like a universal truth.
Yeah, you know self-evident.
I don't know man, because people used to ask how long
should I train for?
Or I had no.
I mean, we got the question on the podcast.
How long should I really don't like it?
And the answer was, at first, like, well,
you should try it for six months, oh, three months.
Whatever, no, no, no.
They train until you tap someone out.
I don't want to use the term in anger,
but you tap someone out for real,
it is just you training environment.
Yeah.
And then you're good.
Yeah, you're right.
That was the specific answer.
So yeah, that is yours.
Okay.
I'm just making sure, because I'm over here wanting full credit.
That's not the last.
If you're training, it just for us.
If you were to set it in not such a way,
like the way you set it, man, you thought you set it
as if you just created like E equals NC squared over there.
You like you should train until you,
you were looking down your nose as you said it as if.
So I had to call you out on that one.
There my little bro's you go.
Oh, good.
I was just remembering the other day.
Well, the Austrian guy that came came Kurt.
Is his name?
Kurt, yeah.
Young Kurt.
Yeah, so I asked him.
I was like, Carl Longing been training.
He said like a month or something.
Like some kind of kind of new, really new.
And so I said, have you tapped anyone out yet?
And he said, yes.
So like, all this guy's in the game, I knew her, Eddie.
So maybe I kind of drew from that recent experience
to, you know, to kind of say it.
But in the last, like I was saying, if you train,
only for self defense, only for self defense.
Not because it's fun, not because it's a good workout,
not because you got into a bunch of new friends,
not because all this stuff.
Only for self defense after a while, not even a long while
after a short while, you can be like, I don't even know
I'm doing it like, I'm not even, I'm not using it
to defend myself really.
Yeah, you know, because those are kind of rare, you know.
And then you might not do it, you know, especially in the
not fun.
So there you go.
And fun people, like there are people who
train you just to for decades, literally decades that
have never got in a fight before.
Never got in a street fight, never got in it like a physical
fight.
So it's like, yeah, are they trained for self defense?
Yeah, sure.
Of course.
But that's not why.
Why?
That's not why they're in the game.
Yeah, exactly.
So nonetheless, when we do it like I said, do the
ghee, this can be one of it.
The other part, it's no game.
When you do get a ghee, you get an origin key.
Yeah, 100% 100% best geese by far.
So, factually.
Now, same type of thing.
If you're going to get an origin key, just because you
want the best ghee, that's good.
That's a good.
That's our good reason.
Like that's solid.
Right?
That's my reason.
If you peel back the layer a little bit and you want to
find out what else you're going to get, well, what
else you're going to get, you're going to get the fact that
you are literally rebuilding an industry and a
community and an economy inside of America.
You know, that's a little, that's not even a little bonus.
Like there's some people that would look at that and say,
I'm going to buy an origin key just because of that.
Yeah.
And then if I even do, you get to that sort of second
thing.
Yeah, I can do it.
Now, if you're feeling it, let's say you're feeling it.
You're feeling that part.
You're feeling like America, you're feeling the economy,
you're feeling the community, you're feeling the industry,
you're going to bring it back, you're going to help.
But you still haven't gotten over the hump of showing
average of your kids to school.
But you still want to support it.
It's OK.
It's, we'll say, I step in the right direction.
We have genes that you can get.
You can get genes.
You're still going to help those other three.
I would prefer the first thing that you get.
In all seriousness, the first thing I would prefer you get
is a geek because that tells me you're going to get on the map.
If you, if you, because so many people,
and you know what, every, well, you know what, 99% of people
say when they finally start due to it,
I wish I would have started, well, when I first
this, blah, that's what people say.
Tell you this.
I'm meeting people now that are purple belts that started
due to when they started listening to this podcast.
So where about probably three to four years away
from having somebody that started you
to listen to this podcast will be a black belt in GJ2,
which is an awesome achievement.
Here's the thing.
There's also people that will say I started listening
to podcast in three years when I'm by before I started.
You could have been a purple belt.
Don't wait.
I'm telling you right now.
Like, I'm telling you right now, start your GJ2.
In fact, I'm telling you that.
And by the way, we touched on a little kind of combatives,
hand-to-hand combat in this book.
All right.
And there's a whole line of a whole thread we can pull on that
and we will at some point the British combatives program
World War II, very cool.
I've done a read a bunch about it and we'll dig into it here
because it's pretty awesome.
The way they were doing things, their concepts, et cetera.
But if they were alive today, they'd be loaned
the GJ2 all day.
Yeah.
And they'd be getting American geese even from England.
They'd be like, you know what?
Those GJs get to yank.
Get yourself a yanky geese.
Right?
Because again, really the primary reason is because it's
factually the best one.
Yeah.
Same thing for jeans where I would say,
since I got my pair of origin jeans, which is like,
oh, I'll go when you think about it when they came out.
So while I go, I have not worn any other jeans ever.
No.
Yeah.
Why would you, why would you do that?
No, there's not even a reason to do that.
There's not even a reason.
I only have one pair too.
Or I don't have three but, unless that's the only ones I wear.
Also, they, we have other stuff here at origin.
We do.
So yeah, joggers, you know, more athletic wear,
all kinds of good stuff.
You go to originmain.com main like the state.
Also supplements, keep yourself in the game.
Yep.
Propel yourself further down the path.
As it were.
Yep.
Get yourself.
Joint warfare and Krooile.
Out of the gate.
Once again, and I feel bad because I did this on social media.
Where the guy was like, hey, what can I do to help?
And I was like, I, I didn't want to be that guy.
That was like, well, you know, here,
try my supplement line.
You know, I just don't, I just don't want to be that guy.
And then later I felt bad.
I was like, I should have just been straight up and said, hey, listen, man,
do whatever you want to do.
Get yourself some Krooile and join warfare immediately.
Order that.
Oh, what?
You're 36 years old and you fail in sore and you're doing it.
And you're at, I think I was literally asking me how my joints are.
I didn't say it.
Because I don't want to be that guy.
Yeah.
Right now I'm being that guy.
You know what guy I'm being?
The guy that's actually trying to help people.
Because I didn't help that guy as much as I could have.
I should have said, listen, do what I, you know, be consistent.
Don't take big chunks of time off.
Order a Krooile and oil.
Join warfare right now.
That's what you have to do.
That's my recommendation.
I feel bad for not doing that.
I will try not to make that mistake again.
No, I had the same experience.
I went on with Pete and Brian hands in daylight.
Okay.
I did an episode with him recently.
And he was, and Pete was saying, oh, yeah, you're like durable.
Because I don't have like ailments.
You know, Pete's jammed up his back.
Yeah.
This is like, you know, we're, I'm older than him actually.
And he's like, oh, yeah, you're durable.
You know, and I was like, yeah, I mean, because I never thought I was durable at all.
Like, that's actually being hanged out with me.
Yeah, exactly.
But I was pretty fragile to be honest with you.
It's fine.
You guys might, because you know what Pete said to me?
Like, when he was just out here, he was like, you're, he told me I was durable.
Well, you're, you're.
So I figured that you guys had that conversation.
Because I said, that's what I call told me one time.
Anyway, you told me, when you told me that,
they've been like, it, when you told it to me, it had been like you had been contemplating
it for quite some time.
You were like, you know what I figured out about you?
And I was like, what?
And you said, you're durable.
Yeah, like a tank.
I was like, that's interesting.
And I had to kind of agree with it.
Yes.
And so he said that I was durable.
And I was like, well, and we even said, no, jocals durable.
I don't, and then, but then, I guess on in a way, yeah, because you're, you're, you
bounce back from some pretty solid.
Pretty solid.
You know, how many new surgeries you had?
One knee surgery, but if you need injuries, plus my loose knees, I know.
I know.
They're loose for real.
Anyway, so they pop out all the time.
That means what I'm saying, you know, and they'll get more and more squats.
I'd decide to do the process.
And how's this?
I do do squats.
And actually now, I go deep like all the way down like you.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, that's the reason.
And how's they feeling tighter?
No, no.
Great.
I mean, same.
No, they still pop out in jiu-jitsu.
Like when I do better, like, anyways, it doesn't matter.
The loose, clinically, the doctor, orthopedic surgeon told me that.
Anyway, so anyway, I don't feel like that.
I don't feel like that.
Anyway, given the circumstances, yeah, I guess I am pretty durable.
But anyway, the point is we're talking about this stuff.
And then, like, I'm like saying, like, oh, yeah, plus, I don't take time out of it.
And then I'm naturally going into plus to take during more fair, or everyday, like, religiously,
you know, so it's basically the point was to say you got to actively be durable, you know,
kind of thing.
Oh, yeah.
But they're not like purely genetic apparently, right?
Increase your durability.
Also, we got other stuff.
We got discipline go in a can, which is just awesome.
It's awesome.
No sugar.
It tastes delicious.
It has some caffeine in it.
It has some, it's got some other things in it.
But it's got a little kick that goes with it.
Same with the discipline powder, which is what I drink pretty much all the time.
It's almost, it doesn't have too much caffeine in the discipline powder.
It's got like 15 milligrams, a scoop, which is not crazy at all.
It's a micro dose, even if you have two scoops.
What's that?
30 million, you know, 45 million grams for three scoops.
It's not that big of a deal.
But taste delicious has some other ingredients that give you a little.
Do you?
Protein, the form of the dessert.
For adults and kids, even though it's like sure the kids are going to drink the regular
milk and let's face it.
The adults are going to drink the word.
Kid mobs.
So much where your kid mock, I'm surprised I haven't turned gone down in age.
The less those are there too.
And they taste insane.
That's the thing.
So that's that.
Also, Jocquay T. And by the way, right now, this all these supplements that you might
want to try are available at the vitamin shop nationwide.
Everyone that's been going out and buying stuff there, it's pretty cool.
Appreciate it.
They're like, hey, everything's selling out.
And we're like, yeah, it's getting more people in the game across the
board.
OriginMain.com.
Get some.
Thank you.
Also, again, reminder, if you're going to get this book, you can't get this book on Amazon.
Get it on Amazon.
You have to go to Pilots Publishing.CL.UK.
Go to thefacebook.com slash the memory indoors.
Also, Jocquay T. And the story, it's called Jocquay T.
And this is where you can get the gear.
I don't really use the word gear that much, but I'm going to use it.
The gear, t-shirt, trash guards, hoodies, hats, that kind of stuff to represent the
pair.
Gear, Discipline equals freedom, good.
Take the high ground or the high ground.
We'll take you.
That's that, Jocquay.
Unless you want to represent while you're on the path, that's where you do it.
JocquayStore.com.
Also, subscribe to this podcast if you haven't yet.
Because if there's a possibility that you've listened to 500 hours and you've been like,
well, I'm not quite sure yet.
I'm asking, you just, you know, go for it.
Just get crazy.
Get crazy.
And subscribe.
I don't even know why someone would not subscribe.
You know, just trying it out, I guess.
You know, I can't even make it.
Make sense.
If you also want to leave a review, some people leave really good reviews.
And by good reviews, I don't mean, hey, it's a great podcast.
I probably like the insight that, no, I mean,
reviews that are, let's just say there's, they've got layers.
layers.
Fun, colorful.
Color, they make me laugh, they make me chuckle.
I'm sure.
Don't forget about the ground in vodka.
So shines a good deed, you know, weary world.
Yeah.
Sorry, I don't know.
I don't know what you have in scene, Willy Wonk and the chocolate factory lately.
No, to be, I don't think of seeing no one in any of them.
I saw part of the Johnny Depp one.
No, I part of it.
Fowl.
Well, thank you.
You got to watch the original one.
It's awesome.
It's a great movie.
All right.
Well, interesting.
That's interesting.
Jock, you heard it.
Jocko.
Watch that.
We, Lee Wonkka and the chocolate factory isn't awesome.
Yes, it is an awesome movie.
Okay.
Oh, go watch it.
Amen.
Maybe I'll look into it.
Maybe he'll watch a report back.
Less grounded podcast.
I mean, I'm over here throwing out quotes from the movie, right?
We're doing Shakespeare.
We're doing, we're doing the memory endurance, but we're also throwing out some Willy
Wonkka.
Charlie and the chocolate factory.
Sure.
All right.
Well, there you go.
It will make sense.
Anyway, like I'll say, I'm grounded podcast as a podcast about life.
Jiu-Jitsu.
Life.
Jiu-Jitsu is infused into life.
Or is life infused into Jiu-Jitsu?
Both.
More important, I think life is reflective of Jiu-Jitsu and Jiu-Jitsu is reflective of life.
So if you can learn from one, you will learn about both, which is important.
It's true.
Not quite as often as chocolate podcasts, but it's out there.
So, which is weird, because it's like really hard to make this podcast.
It's really easy to make a grounded one.
But you know what we do?
We do the hard things.
Yes.
That's what we focus on.
Prioritize.
And what is the second part?
In the way.
You know what's just got a knife in the drum, bro?
Oh, so warrior kid podcast, which is a good one for the young trooper, warrior
kids.
And don't be shy if you're a parent to listen, because you're in a learn.
I wish I would have that podcast as a parent when my kids were young.
Actually, in a way, it's a parent podcast.
It is.
Yeah, because you know, like, when you hear of certain people's childhoods, for whatever.
Like, certain like people who are like successful in XYZ, whether it be athletes, whatever,
right?
And you learn about their childhood.
You could probably learn some solid stuff like, oh, I just just had one model.
Yeah.
Let me try to, you know, start incorporating it.
So let's do the work.
If I can say it's all in there.
Yep.
Speaking of warrior kids, don't forget about the warrior kid soap at IrishOxoranch.com.
And actually right now live.
Live is a new.
Is it model?
What's it called?
A new model.
It's not flavor because you don't eat it.
It's a new.
I didn't even know.
No, it's a new.
Come on.
I'm thinking of regular soap.
So, you know, like, I don't know what do they say.
It's a new version.
Right.
We have a new model, a new version of soap.
You have actually have to check it out because it's so legit.
It's called, well, what it does.
Let me tell you how much it does is it's got some.
Anti-microbial.
I think it does.
It's got some anti-fungal natural elements to it.
One of those elements is like it's got like tea tree oil.
It's got activated charcoal.
And what's cool.
So, this is what's cool.
So, first of all, the soap is called killer soap.
That's the name of the soap.
But what, it couldn't be any more perfect because it is because of the charcoal.
It's black.
So, it's black.
And it's awesome.
So, get yourself some killer soap from IrishRokes Ranch.com.
And by the way, this is a kid that's making it.
A kid that started a company and pitched me.
You know what stuff I get pitched?
I get pitched up five times a day.
I get pitched something, this, that, and the other.
This kid pitched me.
But, you know, he pitched me.
He's like, hey, I'm already rolling.
Yeah.
You know, I'm already rolling.
I'm already making soap.
By the way, I'm 10.
I've got a soap production line.
And I've got vertical integration.
I mean, he was getting after it.
Yeah.
So, he hasn't even pitched me.
Pitched me.
And of course, he didn't even pitch me by, could you, I know, he was like, I want you to know
what I'm doing.
There are openings if you would like to get a piece.
Yeah.
I'm like, you know, and you invest in the people, right?
I'm looking at a kid that's 10 years old that's sending a business plan, that's sending
samples.
What do you like?
So, anyways, we went deep to cover the grappling and just the luck.
Look, there's nasty things in the world.
And if you want to, you can get some killer soap, and that will help you as a person
inside and out.
Just stay clean.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Good logo too.
We just make everyone suffer through our own little inside jokes.
There goes the good one.
Please stop.
It's true.
It's all true.
I can't even be mad.
So, yes, Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
That's where you get it.
And as Joc was saying, hey, stay clean, man.
Right.
Anyway, YouTube channel as well.
Joc podcast does have a YouTube channel.
So, you can get the video version and also excerpts and stuff like that.
Some enhanced videos.
Very English levels of acceptance and very, that was of enhancement.
Very enhanced.
For a life from people.
So, anyway, yeah.
So, YouTube channel subscribe to that if you want.
And smash the like button.
I said it.
You can you can you.
It is.
Maybe.
How many times was that funny?
I don't know, but it wasn't more than 29.
It's only funny.
You say it because it's so hard.
I don't know.
I can't even say it anymore.
Yeah.
Because it's worn out, bro.
So just note, no more.
No stop.
No, it is.
Also, don't forget about psychological warfare.
Little psychological hitter.
And I actually had the person point out to me.
Hey, that was me.
Now, so that's one.
I also had the person point out to me that there was a name for the type of shooting that
we talked about, which is where you're shooting at where things are.
You think things might be.
It's called Drake shooting.
And the dude is like a he's a guy that's on Twitter who always brings up good
points.
He does his own personal research on stuff.
But he's got a weird handle that I can't remember what it is ever.
I recognize it in the heartbeat.
I know I can tell you all the kind of things.
So anyways, I apologize for not telling you that Drake shooting appreciate the info.
He's always got a good info.
But the psychological hitter with someone that's realized that that's what psychological
warfare is.
It's not some broad course on how to have more discipline in your life.
It's just a little bit of a hitter in case you need it.
So the psychological warfare, and if you need a visual hitter, you can go to flipsidecampus.com
to go to my or make it a bunch of really cool.
A bunch of really cool graphic images that you can hang up on your wall.
So you stay on the path no matter what.
Books.
Hey, look for this book right here.
The memory indoors.
Awesome book.
An honor to be able to read it.
Thank you to Rick or Rich who sent it to me.
And yes, we will keep up the work that we're doing here.
If you want to get this book, go to pilotspublishing.co.uk or go to facebook.com.
The memory indoors.
And if you also be helping out the regiment, the parachute regiment, charity.
On top of that, leadership strategy and tactics, everyone that's got it.
Thank you.
You're probably going to get copies of those for the people that you know, recommended.
Let's get your team on board.
I appreciate it.
Or your kid one, two and three, probably the best kids books that you can get right
now in my opinion.
I'm biased.
But I'm only biased because I read them.
And I think, man, the lessons in these books.
I wish I knew them.
So warrior kid books one, two and three, way the warrior kid marks mission.
And where there's a will, Mikey in the dragons, if you got a little or kid.
Want to learn one of the most important things that you can learn as a kid is how to overcome
fear that book shows you how to overcome fear.
Discounted groups freedom, field manual, get it so that you can read two pages.
Read two pages.
Okay, you know, let's say we made up a pill that you could take this pill and you would
get a mind shift.
Like a positive way.
Like you would.
If you took this pill, you would increase your discipline.
And factually, okay, would that pill pill sell well?
Would people want it?
Yes.
Okay.
Read two pages of this book.
You're discipline will increase.
16 to 18% by the way.
Yeah.
Increase in discipline.
Well, read two pages.
Well, in the defense of the pill people, pill advocates, the whole purpose of a pill is
so you don't have to do any kind of work or read or do all this stuff.
Okay, so okay.
Two pages of this book is not an extended period of time.
You're finishing this in less than four minutes.
Oh, so right.
So this book essentially is the pill of books.
So you know, instead of like the encyclopedia set of books.
Okay.
We'll take it.
It's a rough lose analogy.
Not sure.
Not 100% I'll think of something.
Thank you through that one.
And then of course, we got extreme ownership of the Nicodemy leadership.
These are the foundational books about leadership that I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin.
We got echelon front, which is a leadership consultancy.
Look, if you have a business, if you have a team, if you have a company and you have
problems, every single problem that you have is a leadership problem.
I guarantee that every single problem that you have is a leadership problem.
And what we do at echelon front is we solve problems through leadership.
So go to echelonfront.com for details.
We got EF online, which is leadership, interactive leadership training online, it's EF online.com.
You can get the information.
You can get the repetitions.
You can get put in scenarios that will help you think through problems at EF online.
We also do little live webinars where we answer questions.
EF online.com.
We got the mustard coming up in Dallas, Texas, Orlando, Florida and Phoenix, Arizona.
Every event that we've done has sold out.
If you want to come, go to extremownership.com right now and register leadership 7R.
That's what we do there.
And of course, we've got EF Overwatch and EF Legion placement for military people that
understand extremownership.
Then understand the dichotomy of leadership.
EF Overwatch is for executive leadership inside companies.
EF Legion front line troops and front line leaders.
Go to EF Overwatch.com or EF Legion to get involved in that from either side, whether
you're a vet.
That wants to get into a civilian job or either civilian company that needs veterans to help
you lead and win.
Go to those websites and get that figured out.
EF, if you have not heard enough of my overly dramatic speech patterns and excessively long
pauses.
And you haven't heard enough of ECHOS ridiculous commentary about the heroic life of being
a balancer.
Then we are available on the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram, and on the old Fission
Blah, echo is that.
ECHOS and I am at Jock on the link in.
Thank you all for listening to the podcast and for giving this podcast to your support.
Thanks for spreading the word.
Thanks for telling your friends.
Thanks for getting some deaf core gear or some origin gear, all of which allows us to
do this podcast.
And of course, thanks to Reg Curtis for your service and sacrifice to keep us free.
And all the military members out there in uniform right now doing the same thing, keeping
the enemy at bay, and also to our police and law enforcement and firefighters and paramedics
and EMTs and dispatchers and correctional officers in Board of Patrol and Secret Service.
And all first responders.
Thank you for keeping us safe.
Every single day here at home and everyone else out there, remember what Reg Curtis taught
us to never give up even against overwhelming odds to never accept the feet to persevere
and endure until the end.
And then when you get tripped up or you get knocked down even then what you do is you do
the best you can.
Lesson learned.
Thank you.
Reg Curtis and we will be out there in your honor, getting after it.
And until next time, the ZECO.
And Jocco.
Ouch.